VOL. 41 NO. 253 | BENGALURU | 16 PAGES | .`4.00 ONLY ( .`12.00 ALONG WITH ET WEALTH)
/trianglertEntry-level Smartphones may Get Costlier on Rising Memory Chip Prices /trianglertHomebuyers’ Body Requests Housing Ministry to Strengthen RERA: P 10
WWW.ECONOMICTIMES.COMThe air quality
will continue to 
remain in thepoor categoryin Delhi-NCR asthe cold settlesin, posingsevere healthrisks, experts
say. /trianglertP10
BENNETT , COLEMAN & CO. L TD. MONDA Y, 27 OCTOBER 2025
CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGMP15 User: k.eswar Time: 10-26-2025 23:26 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.Tweet   OF THE DAY
A mentor once 
told me: “When 
you don’t know 
what to do next, 
clean your desk, 
make a list, and 
start with the 
smallest thing 
that matters.” 
Every major pro -
ject begins with a 
single act.BLAKE BURGE  
@BLAKEABURGE
For comprehensive and   
insightful stories about all  
things startups and technology, 
log on to www.ettech.com
. 
3%
Growth of India’s smart -
phone market year-on-
year in the third quarter of the calendar year 2025, reaching 48.4 mil -
lion units shipped. 
—OmdiaTech Buzz
‘Foldable iPhone 
in 2026 to Boost 
Apple Fortunes’ 
SoftBank Clears 
Balance $22.5b OpenAI FundingNEW DELHI: Apple’s fold -
able, expected around late 
2026, could redefine ex -
pectations and push fold -
ables into a new main -
stream adoption phase, 
according to a new report. 
The biggest structural 
shift is expected in late 
2026, when Apple’s first 
foldable iPhone is expect -
ed to debut. According to Counterpoint Research re -
port, Apple’s entry would 
instantly expand consum -
er awareness and acceler -
ate replacement demand 
across segments. Given Apple’s ecosystem influ -
ence, its launch year could reshape brand dynamics, 
lifting total market vol -
umes. The report predicts 
US foldable smartphone 
market to grow 68% (on-
year) in 2025.
— Agencies
NEW YORK: SoftBank has 
approved a second install -
ment of $22.5 billion to complete its $30 billion in -
vestment in OpenAI, the Information reported. The Japanese group’s board 
has approved the install -
ment as long as the artifi -
cial intelligence startup 
completes a corporate re -
structuring that would pave the way for an even -
tual public offering, the 
report said, citing a per -
son with knowledge of the decision. SoftBank and 
OpenAI did not immedi -
ately respond to a request 
for comment. The money 
would fill out a $41 billion 
financing round that was 
announced in April, ac -
cording to the Information 
report.  —Reuters
ANIMISHA
 ANIMISHA
Jargon Buster
The process of closely 
examining data to glean insights. Data mining is a central aspect of data analytics. The insights firms find during mining process will inform busi -
ness recommendationsData miningtent whether they are a social media
intermediary or providing soft-
ware or services that leverage
AI. This opens a long list
of  popular AI-based
software, apps
and services
including
OpenAI’s
ChatGPT ,
Dall-E,
and Sora,
Google's
Gemini,
Note-
book-
LM,and Google Cloud, Microsoft’s Copi-
lot, Office365 and Azure, and Meta AI
to scrutiny .
Firms said they are already part of
international efforts to trace the ori-
gin of  digital content and have imple-
mented in-house methods for content
provenance, sources added.
To cull the rapid rise of  AI based
deepfakes, the MeitY last week pub-
lished draft amendments to the Infor-
mation Technology (Intermediary
Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics
Code) Rules, 2021, that mandates dec-
laration from all social media users
when posting AI-generated or
modified content, and directsGlobal T ech Reviewing AI-labelling
Mandate as India Curbs Deepfakes 
RULE BOOK Rules extend declaration requirement to AI-based products of all tech firms: Officials
sing fast, with India leading the re-
gional victim counts. Adam Meyer ,
CrowdStrike’s head of  counter ad-
versary operations, warns that this
is a ticking time bomb rather than
protection. “India needs to do cyber-
security well to be a leader in cyber-
security ,” Meyers told ET . 
The warning comes because ran-
somware groups FunkLocker and
KillSec showed disproportio-
nate targeting of  the Asia Pa-
cific region. India accoun-
ted for 35% of  Funk-
Locker and 32% of
KillSec victims.
Operators of
FunkLocker
openly ad-
mit they tar-
get organisa-
tions with
“weak defen-
ces.” Close to
763 APJ-ba-AI-driven Cybercrime Threatens India’s $5T Dream 
Tanya Pandey
New Delhi: Sophisticated cybercri-
minals deploying artificial intelli-
gence (AI) as a weapon are taking ad-
vantage of  inadequate corporate de-
fences in India, CrowdStrike’s latest
Asia Pacific eCrime report found.
This raises alarm bells for the count-
ry’s $5 trillion economic ambitions.
Though the Asia Pacific region re-
presents more than half  of  the
world’s population, only 9% of  ran-
somware victims worldwide are
from this region. But this gap is clo-sed victims were listed on ransom-
ware leak sites in CrowdStrike’s re-
port, which ran from January 2024 to
April 2025. The countries with the
highest representation besides India
were Australia, Japan, Taiwan, and
Singapore. Financial services, tech-
nology , and manufac-
turing were the
most heavily
targetedtweak tactics. India faces unique vul-
nerabilities with over 820 million in-
ternet users and more than 10 billion
transactions processed through the
Unified Payments Interface (UPI)
every month. The country’s digital
infrastructure is vulnerable to mul-
tiple breaches. 
Indian IT firms that oversee critical
infrastructure for clients around the
world could become target points for
supply chain attacks, though Meyer
said there is no evidence of  this yet, but
cautioned that this may happen soon.
Voice phishing remains rampant,
with fake bank calls and “digital ar-
rest” scams plaguing Indian users. 
“In the next three to nine months,
we’re going to be seeing a complete
explosion of  zero-day vulnerabilities
because one of  the things you can do
really well with AI is use it to find
new vulnerabilities,” he said.sectors. The threat landscape is evol-
ving rapidly . Meyers introduced the
concept of  the “enterprising adver-
sary ,” describing cybercriminals
operating with business-like disci-
pline after traditional malware at-
tacks became harder to execute. 
“The adversary didn’t try harder ,
they got more enterprising,” he said,
pointing to a 442% increase in voice-
based phishing attacks as criminalsCountry is the prime
target of AI-wielding
crooks due to weak
corp security: Report small, positive bias in terms of
the commentary . Last quarter , we
did report about projects getting
paused, some of  them getting de-
ferred. So, there is a slight reduc-
tion in those activities.”
Gaurav Parab, an analyst at tech
research firm NelsonHall said,
“BFSI is one of  the earliest bell-
wether for tech spend cycles and
the greenshoots of  recovery there
indicates a potential uptick in in-
vestments in dependent verticals
like retail, healthcare technology
and manufacturing, contingent on
the fluid trade deal situation with
China being resolved.”
Chiefs of  all IT majors said the
demand environment continues
to remain uncertain, yet H2 looks
more optimistic. They expect de-
mand momentum to strengthen
by early 2026 as enterprise clients
resume digital modernisation cy-
cles and capitalise on GenAI op-
portunities and increased invest-
ments.
Infosys CEO Salil Parekh noted
mixed conditions across markets
with some segments like BFSI,
manufacturing and retail seeing
traction.IT Sees Pockets of
H2 Recovery in US,
EU as BFSI Revs up
Healthy bookings help offset the lingering
pressure from telecom, retail, auto clients
Norway Leads the Charge 
in Electric Mobility
SHARE OF BATTERY ELECTRIC VEHICLES IN 
TOTAL NEW PASSENGER CAR SALES IN 
SELECTED COUNTRIES IN H1 2025  (IN %)*93.763.5
3529.821.6 17.7 17.67.6 7.3 5.2 1.3
NO DK NL CN GB DE FR ES US IT JP
Excl. plug-in hybrids (PHEV) and other hybrids. Data for China includes commercial ve -
hicles. Source: Statista, Industry data via PwC
Tech Trotter Meanwhile in tech...Deal Corner Deals keep flowing in as investors look for bright spots
Chaudhary , and Sumeet Kapahi,
are participating in the OFS por-
tion. Other marquee investors such
as SoftBank, TR Capital, Kedaara
and TPG Growth, are also selling
shares in the company .
The omnichannel retailer had last
closed a private funding round in
2024, led by Singapore’s sovereign
fund Temasek and US-based asset
manager Fidelity , which valued it at
$5 billion. These investors picked a
$200 million stake in the compa-
ny . Subsequently , in June this
year , Fidelity marked up
the fair value of  Len-
skart in its books to
$6.1 billion. With
an expected val-
uation of
``70,000crore, Lenskart’s investors are sit-
ting on paper gains ranging from 5-
17 times. 
The company’s worth has jumped
significantly over the past few
years, from $2.4 billion in 2021 to $6.1
billion earlier this year , when it was
valued by private market investors.
The retailer said in its IPO pro-
spectus that it plans to deploy about
``272 crore of  the fresh capital to
open new stores across India,
while around ` `591 crore will
go towards
leasing, rent-
als and other op-
erational expenses
for its existing network
of  more than 2,800 outlets
worldwide (as of  June 30),
of  which 2,137 are in India.Lenskart’ s `7.3kcr IPO on
Oct 31, Eyes `70kcr V alue 
Eyewear retailer’s investors may see 5-17x gains on early bets 
facturing and selling through deal-
ers and its own offline retail outlets,
Spacewood produces furniture for
brands such as Hometown, Urban
Ladder and Home Centre.
Spacewood currently runs around
35 exclusive stores in more than 20
cities across India. Through more
than 500 dealers, it sells its products
across 150 cities.Spacewood in T alks to Close
` `300cr Financing from A91 
Pranav Mukul & Samidha Sharma
New Delhi | Mumbai: Modular
furniture maker Spacewood Fur-
nishings is in advanced discussions
to close a ` `300 crore financing from
investment firm A91 Partners, ac-
cording to people in the know .
The financing is likely to value the
Nagpur-based company at about
``1,200 crore, said one of  the persons,
who did not wish to be identified,
adding that the proposed transac-
tion comprises both primary and
secondary components. A second-
ary transaction involves an exist-
ing shareholder selling shares to an
incoming one. In addition to manu-Investment may value furniture maker at around ` `1,200cr: Source 
Founders Vivek Deshpande & Kirit JoshiWith the funding it plans to ex-
pand to 100 stores across the coun-
try , said another person.
“The funds will help the company
accelerate growth through brand
building, strength manufacturing
and improving product portfolio
and attracting talent,” said one of
the persons cited earlier .
Adecade ago, Japanese housing
and building materials trading
firm Sumitomo Forestry had
picked up a 26% stake in Spacewood
for around ` `90-100 crore, in what
was India’s first foreign direct in-
vestment deal in the furniture man-
ufacturing sector .THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Disruption: Startups & Tech
fluential game’s 25th anniver-
sary . One detail, though, was as-
tounding. The sci-fi franchise
that has helped the company sell
four generations of  Xbox con-
soles and generate billions of  dol-
lars is coming to the Sony Play-
Station, Microsoft’s direct com-
petitor , for the first time. It is the
equivalent of  Disney letting
Mickey Mouse roam Universal
Studios. — NYTNSXbox’s Prized Sci-Fi Game
is Heading to PlayStation
San Francisco: Re-
making a classic vid-
eo game with modern
technology to reach
both nostalgic and new audienc-
es has become commonplace in
an industry facing financial
challenges. So it was not a huge
surprise when Microsoft an-
nounced Friday that it would re-
lease an updated version of  Halo:
Combat Evolved next year , the in-
All Eyes on AI
MeitY’s draft IT Rules 
amendments mandate 
all tech firms to label AI-
generated content
Move extends beyond 
social media intermediar -
ies to global AI players like 
OpenAI, Google, MS and Meta
Tech firms are part of 
international initia-
tives such as C2PAIndustry for 
clear , practi-cal standards 
platforms to adopt technology to veri-
fy these. While the initial focus has
been on significant social media in-
termediaries (SSMIs) or those with 50
lakh (5 million) or more registered us-
ers in India, all technology intermedi-
aries must be part of  the efforts, offi-
cials said.
Google, OpenAI and Microsoft did
not respond to ET’s requests for com-
ments. However , industry sources
pointed to these, and other tech giants
already being part of  global efforts to
validate digital data. Google, Micro-
soft, OpenAI, Meta, Amazon and In-
tel, among others, are steering com-
mittee members of  the Coalition for
Content Provenance and Authentici-
ty (C2PA) which provides an open
technical standard to establish the
origin and edits of  digital content
called Content Credentials.
OpenAI has developed a text water-
marking method, while researching
alternatives such as how metadata
can be used in a text provenance
method. Meanwhile, Microsoft’s Pro-
ject Origin aims to create a system to
certify the source and integrity of  dig-
ital content through collaborations
with content producers, distributors,
cloud providers and app developers.Subhayan Chakraborty 
New Delhi: Global tech giants
like Microsoft, OpenAI and
Google are studying India’s
latest government man-
date to label all artificial
intelligence content on so-
cial media, sources said.
All creators of  AI generat-
ed producing will be cov-
ered if  their computer
resources produce such
content shared in the
public domain, offi-
cials told ET .
“Any software, da-
tabase or computer
resource that is
used to generate
synthetic content
would be covered
under the man-
date, to make the
effort of  labelling AI
fool proof. The rules are not
only for social media plat-
forms,” a ministry of  elec-
tronics and information
technology (MeitY) offi-
cial said.
All technology firms
would have to embed the
disclaimer in their con-
FOR FULL REPORT, GO TO
www.economictimes.com
GUSTAV KLIMT, Flower Garden 
Q2 marked a turnaround for 
Indian IT with Infosys and 
HCLTech leading sequential growth of over 5% and YoY gains above 8-10%
Demand recovery is visible 
through smaller transforma-tion and AI deals, while large clients remain cautious
Tech majors 
project strong -
er H2 amid op-timism for 2026 on GenAITCS, HCLTech, others see 
growing AI rev -
enues, data cen-
tre investmentsBLOOM AWAITS Beena Parmar
Bengaluru: India’s IT services ex-
porters showed pockets of  recov-
ery in the second quarter in North
America and Europe, with renew-
ed momentum for the industry’s
largest vertical — the banking, fi-
nancial services and insurance
(BFSI) sector . This helped offset the
lingering pressure from telecom,
retail and automotive clients.
Healthy deal bookings, rise in
headcount and protected margins
signalled a stronger outlook for the
second half  of  the ongoing fiscal
year ending March 2026, showing a
slow recovery from a prolonged
global technology spending slump
of  the past three years for the $283
billion outsourcing industry .
“In the Americas, BFSI has turn-
ed into a real growth engine,” tech
research firm ISG said in an ana-
lyst call. “Banks are reporting re-
cord earnings this quarter , which
could lead to a loosening of  discre-
tionary technology spending.”
PERFORMANCE LEADERS
Industry executives and analysts
view the Q2 results as a pivot
point. Even as large clients are
still in wait-and-watch mode,
smaller transformation deals
and AI projects are increasing
greenshoots in tech spending cy-
cles. This reflected in the per-
formance of  India’s second and
third largest software exporter
Infosys and HCLTech, which led
the industry's revenue growth
rate exceeding 5% sequentially ,
and YoY gains of  more than 8%
and 10%, respectively .
Defying market uncertainties,
both companies projected opti-
mistic guidance raising their
full-year guidance, with
HCLTech lifting its services reve-
nue projection to 4-5% from 3-5%,
while Infosys increased its lower
band to 2-3% from 1-3%.
Wipro posted modest revenue
growth and dip in profit num-
bers, also improved its sequen-
tial guidance of  -0.5% to +1.5%
growth in Q3.
Bellwether Tata Consultancy
Services (TCS) posted more mod-
est gains of  3.2% quarter-on-
quarter and 2.4% year-on-year ,
with CEO K Krithivasan high-
lighting that BFSI continues to
grow globally , particularly in
North America. “ And similarly ,
if  you look at Europe, it has done
well compared to last quarter ,”
said an analyst.
Noting reduced project defer-
rals, Krithivasan, in an inter-
view with ET , added, “There is a
Setting Stage
Lenskart is set to 
list on November 
10 with an esti-
mated valuation 
of $8 billion 
Firm plans to use `272 crore for new 
store expansion and `591 crore for 
leasing and operational costs across 
its 2,800 outlets worldwideOFS size has been 
trimmed to 127.5 million shares from 132.3 m  
shares earlierOur Bureau 
New Delhi: Eyewear retailer Len-
skart has filed the red herring pro-
spectus (RHP) for its ` `7,300-crore
initial public offering (IPO), which
will be launched on October 31 and
will close on November 4. The com-
pany expects to raise ` `2,150 crore,
and shareholders expect to sell
stake worth ` `5,128 crore via the of-
fer-for-sale (OFS) portion.
Lenskart is expected to be valued
at ` `70,000 crore through the IPO, and
the company will list on the ex-
changes on November 10.
The OFS portion has been down-
sized from 132.3 million shares earli-
er to 127.5 million shares to accom-
modate the pre-IPO secondary
transaction conducted by Lenskart
cofounder Neha Bansal, who sold
``90 crore worth of  stock at
``402 per share to Shrikan-
ta R Damani, wife of
DMart promoter Rad-
hakishan Damani.
ET had reported in
July that Len-
skart was tar-
geting a valua-
tion of  ` `70,000-75,000
crore (about $8-8.5 billion)
in its public issue.
Lenskart’s investors, in-
cluding CEO Peyush Ban-
sal, Neha Bansal, Amit
Accel, Prosus
Team up for
Early-stage
Investments
Pranav Mukul
New Delhi: Dutch technology in-
vestor Prosus and US-based venture
capital firm Accel have entered into
apartnership to co-invest in early-
stage Indian startups across areas
such as advanced manufacturing,
energy transition and artificial in-
telligence-based automation, accor-
ding to a joint statement.
The tie-up expands Atoms X, Ac-
cel’s early-stage founder program-
me, with Prosus set to match Ac-
cel’s investments in each selected
startup. On a combined basis, the
cheque size for seed investments
under this programme will range
between $200,000 and $2 million, Ac-
cel partner Pratik Agarwal told ET .
The programme will look to back
companies that are either innova-
ting on technology
or working on novel
business models, he
said, adding, “In the
beginning, each of
us will invest
$100,000 to $1 millio-
n…and that will mo-
ve the needle for so-
me of  these early-
stage companies.
Hopefully , we can
find more opportu-
nities to double
down on these founders.” Accel’s
Atoms X programme is focused on
startups in their initial stages but
building businesses with potentially
large-scale addressable markets. For
Prosus, which invests in companies
at growth or later stages, this will re-
sult in increased exposure to India’s
early-stage startup ecosystem.
“It’s an addition to what we alre-
ady do on the early stage. At Pro-
sus, we always look to back com-
panies that can have an impact
across millions of  people in emer-
ging markets. There is a section
of  entrepreneurs who want to ta-
ke very audacious bets but they
find it hard to reach a place where
they get interesting for Prosus,”
said Ashutosh Sharma, head of
India ecosystem at Prosus.
For Prosus,
this will result
in increased
exposure to
India’s
early-stage
startup
ecosystem
FOR FULL REPORT, GO TO
www.economictimes.com
FOR FULL REPORT, GO TO
www.economictimes.com
FOR FULL REPORT, GO TO
www.economictimes.com
MELBOURNE: Australia
has earmarked $54.4
million to build cyber-
security capacity across the
Indo-Pacific, saying global coop-
eration is key as online crimes
become more sophisticated. The
financial commitment will be
spread across four years to 2028
through Australia’s Southeast
Asia and Pacific Cyber Program,
said Matt Thistlewaite, assistant
minister for immigration and
foreign affairs. Cyber crime is
expected to cost global economy
around $10.5 trillion a year by
2025, the UN said. —BLOOMBERG
Oz Unveils Cyber
Security Push
for Indo-Pacific 
In Troubled Waters
India’s vast digital 
ecosystem with 
820m internet us -
ers and 10b UPI transactions monthly 
leaves it highly exposed to cyber breaches 
Voice phishing and online scams like 
fake bank calls, ‘digital arrests’ and 
lottery frauds are rising in India Indian IT firms 
managing global critical infrastruc -
ture could become prime targets 
FOR FULL REPORT, GO TO
www.economictimes.comCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGMP16 User: saliha.nasline Time: 10-26-2025 23:04 Color:CMYK
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.SUITS & 
SAYINGS
Gifts come in all shapes — some can bite,
that of the gab may glitch at high-profile
spots, while others include an unpopular
clause. More about it on /trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtPAGE 3Gift-rappedKiran Rathee 
New Delhi: Electronics exports could
rise to take the place of  petroleum pro-
ducts as the second-most shipped cate-gory , as the US dissuades Indian refi-ners from buying Russian crude. 
India’s electronics exports are rising
speedily up the ranks, having streng-thened position as the country’s third— and fastest-growing — overseas sa-les category in the first six months ofFY26, commerce ministry data sho-wed. Electronics could be on course to
overtake petroleum product exports
in two years, amid curbs on the pur-chase of  Russian oil, and take secondElectronics Now No. 3 Export Category
PM Narendra Modi said
the 21st century is a
shared era of opportunity
for India and Asean, anddeclared 2026 the ‘Year of
Asean-India Maritime Cooperation,’reports Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury . He
was virtually addressing the 22
nd
India-Asean summit in Kuala Lumpur. 
India, Asean Fellow
Travellers of GlobalSouth, says PM 
US secretary of state
Marco Rubio has defend-
ed ties with Pakistan,
while affirming they arenot directed against
India. Without mentioning India’srelations with Russia or Iran, he said
India has ties with nations with which
the US does not have relationships.
US-Pak Ties Not
Directed AgainstIndia, says Rubio
India and the EU will discuss key areas of the proposed free trade pact
including market access, non-tariff measures and regulatory cooperationduring commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal’s to Brussels. 
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt14India, EU to Discuss Key FTA Issues 
FOCUS LIKELY ON MKT ACCESS, NON-TARIFF MEASURES IN BRUSSELS
FPI equity flows in secondary market in ’25
Source: Stockedge*to-dateBullish Again
Month Inflows/Outflows ( ` cr)
January -76,552
February -53,759
March 5,982
April 3,416
May 9,691
June 16,732
July -38,214
August -41,908
September -22,761
October*1,880
Kala Vijayraghavan & Sagar Malviya
Mumbai: Tata Trusts chairman Noel Tata as well as vi-
ce chairman Venu Srinivasan and Vijay Singh are unlik-
ely to approve the reappointment of  trustee Mehli Mist-ry , whose term ends onOctober 28, multiple peo-ple close to the develop-
ment told ET . The truste-
es might convey their de-cision on Monday .
Mistry , a trustee of  the
Sir Dorabji Tata Trust(SDTT) and the Sir RatanTata Trust (SRTT) since2022, faces a renewal votethis week. The two truststogether hold a 51% stakein Tata Sons, the Tata Gro-up’s holding company . Aresolution to renew histerm was moved on Fridayby Tata Trusts’ CEO Sidd-harth Sharma. TrusteesDarius Khambata, PramitJhaveri, and Jehangir HCJehangir have given theirconsent, sources said.
The disagreement over
his reappointment couldset off  legal challenges, in-siders said. Mistry was se-en as being antagonistic tochairman Noel Tata aswell as other nominee di-rectors on Tata Sons bo-ard, namely Srinivasanand previously , Singh.
Unanimity a Norm /trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt4REAPPOINTMENT TO TRUSTS
Noel T ata, Others
Unlikely to OkayMehli Renewal
Tata trustees seek legal counsel
amid simmering internal discordTech giants
such as Micro-soft, OpenAI
and Google are studyingIndia’s mandate to label all
AI content on social media,if their resources are usedto produce it, reports
Subhayan Chakraborty .
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtFACING PAGE
Tech MNCs Vet
India’s Ruleson AI-labelling
A special bench
of the IncomeTax Appellate
Tribunal has ruled thatpenalty for taxpayers not
reporting offshore assets
is not ‘automatic’ underthe stern anti-BlackMoney law, reports
Sugata Ghosh. 
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt3
In Black Money
Law, ‘May,’ NotMust, Fine: ITAT 
India is firming
up a scheme —PM Kaushal
Mudra Yojana to fundskilling of workforce, tomake financing a part ofskills ecosystem. It islikely to be announced inBudget 2026-27. Yogima
Seth reports. 
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt14
Skills Financing
Plan likely forSunrise SectorsFASTEST-GROWING IN APRIL-SEPT
Rising Through the Ranks
Top export categories for India over the years and electronics’ growing prominence
FY22 FY24 FY25 
1. Engineering goods
2. Petroleum products3. Gems and jewellery
4. Chemicals5. Drugs and pharma 6. Readymade garments7. Electronics 
1. Engineering goods2. Petroleum products 3. Gems and jewellery4. Chemicals5. Electronics
1. Engineering goods
2. Petroleum products
3. Electronics
Entry- and mid-level smart-
phones are likely to be costlierfrom Q4 on rising memory chip
prices, reports Subhrojit Mallick. 
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt10
Smartphones may Get
Pricier from Next Year
Kairavi Lukka
Mumbai: Overseas fund managers are
at their most b ullish on Indian equities
since July , in contrast with their outlo-
ok earlier this month when bearish wa-gers were at record levels. 
These investors have cut bearish bets
in Nifty futures amid  the bounce in In-
dian equities in the past  two weeks that
has brought the main indices near all-
time highs reached  in September 2024.
The long-short ratio—a market senti-
ment indicator that compares the num-ber of  traders betting on a rise in prices(long positions) to those betting on a fall
(short positions)—based on foreigners’derivative positions stood at nearly25% on Friday , the highest since July 9. 
This shows these investors have been
reducing short positions, a processknown as short covering. The long-short ratio for Nifty futures has consis-tently remained under 20% since mid-July . “In the previous  week, it was FII
short covering that drove the market ingeneral and the index  in particular ,” sa-
id Sham Chandak, head of  institutio-nal equities, Elios Financial Services.
Fourth Week of Market Gaining /trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt4FPI Optimism at Over 3-Month High 
What’s Going On?
Mistry’s trustee  term 
ends on October 28
Renewal 
resolution moved by 
CEO Siddharth 
Sharma on Friday
However, decisions at Tata Trusts taken unanimously by convention
Mistry gave
conditional 
nod to 
Srinivasan’s 
renewalTrustees, legal experts 
deem 
conditional approval invalid
Tata Trusts seeks 
legal counsel as internal rift persistsThree trustees consented to Mistry’s 
reappointmentPURE
POLITICS
Ratna Bhushan
New Delhi: Japanese luxury beauty
products maker Shiseido plans to start
manufacturing in India as it scales up,joining global peers such as Estee Lau-
der Companies and The Body Shop,which are also in talks with local part-ners to kickstart or step up productionin the country and tap into the world’sfastest-growing market in the segment.India Turning World’s Beauty Spot
Shiseido latest to join queue of international luxe beauty brands deciding to make in India
INDIA’S LUXURY BEAUTY MARKETRECENT LUXURY BEAUTY 
ENTRANTS TO INDIALooking Good
CATEGORISED 
ON PRICING China facing economic 
headwinds & dampened consumer spending on beauty
India’s luxury beauty 
market to follow S-curve growth trajectory2023: $800 million
2028: $1.6 billion (projected)
2035: $4 billion (projected)
$15 or more for haircare (250 ml)$20 or more for skincare (50 ml) $40 or more for fragrance (100 ml)
Rare Beauty by Selena Gomez
Fenty Beauty by RihannaAnomaly Haircare by 
Priyanka Chopra
H&M Beauty 
Huda Beauty
Source: Kearney, LuxAsiaSharmistha Mukherjee
New Delhi: India’s ` `7,300 crore scheme
to incentivise the local production of  ra-
re earth minerals and magnets could fa-ce hurdles, because of  China’s latestcurbs on exports of  equipment needed toprocess the raw materials and manufac-ture the components critical to high-
tech industries.
Countries like Germany and Japan ha-
ve some technology and equipment re-
quired for processing rare earth materi-als, but they are much costlier than tho-se from China, the leader in rare earthmaterials and extraction equipment glo-bally , senior industry executives told ET .According to the International EnergyAgency , China accounts for 61% of  glo-bal rare earth production and 92% ofprocessing. Rare earth magnets are cri-tical components for electric vehicles,consumer electronics, wind turbinesand industrial machinery .
“China’s commerce ministry has issu-
ed a notification extending export cont-rols also to rare earth production andprocessing equipment, and rare earth
raw and auxiliary materials,” said a se-
nior auto industry executive who did notwish to be identified.
Licence Mandatory/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt 4India’ s Rare Earth Mfg
Plan may Hit China W allBEIJING CURBS NOW ON EXPORTS OF PROCESSING TECH 
Sourcing costlier extraction
equipment from Germany,Japan could impactviability of local projects 
NEW H URDLE
Indian firms could 
face higher costs, project delaysChina accounts for 61%production, 92%
processing of rare earths
India has approved a scheme to offer cos fin support for setting up critical mineral’s processing units, supply chains
New Beijing curbs on processing equipment may hurt local production plan
Germany, Japan 
tech pricier alternatives to China/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtPAGE 2
place after engineering products, ex-
perts said.
The electronics category was num-
ber 7 on the exports list in FY22. In theyear ended March, it was the fastest-growing in the top 10 categories. 
Since then, it has accelerated further . 
Seen Doubling in 3 Years/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt 4WORLD PLUGS INTO INDIA
iPhones-led shipments up
42% YoY by value, maysurpass petro productsMONDA Y, 27 OCTOBER 2025 BENNETT , COLEMAN & CO. L TD.
WWW .ECONOMICTIMES .COM
To order your favourite newspaper , call 1800 1200 004 toll free or visit subscribe.timesofindia.com. To advertise with us, call 1800 120 5474
SMBC to Help Yes Bank in Next Phase
of Growth: Global CEO Nakashima
Toru Nakashima, global CEO at SMBC that ac-
quired 20% of Yes Bank, told the Indian lender’sstaff at a town hall meeting that they would takethe bank to next level of growth and reassuredthem on job security.
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt8VOL. 41 NO. 253 | BENGALURU | 16 PAGES | .`4.00 ONLY ( .`12.00 ALONG WITH ET WEALTH)
Hosts Anirban Chowdhury
and Kailash Babar speak toKnight Frank’s WilliamBeardmore-Gray andShishir Baijal on India’s
rapidly expanding real estate market, global
investor appetite, and how technology,sustainability, and the GCC surge are re-shaping the country’s property landscape.
Landing in IndiaAfter unprecedented selling this  year, FPIs buy ` `1,880 cr of shares in October
“Local manufacturing would get the
company inherent advantages, inclu-
ding lower duties, in the rapidly ex-panding India market,” Sanjay Sharma,country head of  Shiseido Group inIndia, told ET. “It’s a global decision andwill depend on scale which we will evalu-ate.” The brand currently imports itsentire range.
India’s luxury beauty products market
is estimated to expand to $4 billion insales by 2035, from $800 million in 2023, ata time when China is facing economic
headwinds and dampened consumer
spending in the segment, according to areport by consulting firm Kearney ,along with luxury products retailerLuxAsia. “ As scale builds up, manufac-turers of  luxury cosmetics are startingmanufacturing in India,” Sharma said.
Exclusive Manufacturing Tie-ups/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt4The month-long festive season
recorded about 27% year-on-
year growth in sales on e-com-
merce platforms, driven by a revival in
consumer sentiment after across-the-board GST cuts and robust demand fromnon-metro cities, analysts said. Jessica
Rajan & Disha Acharya report. 
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrt3
Long-running Festive
Show Delivers a Big Hit for Ecommerce CosSALES UP 27% FROM LAST YEARCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGFP User: devarath.krish Time: 10-27-2025 00:54 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.PUBLISHED FOR THE PROPRIETORS Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. by Manjeet Singh Dhami at Bennett Coleman & Co Ltd, Elixir Chancery Building, 1st, 2nd and 4th Floor, 135, Residency Road, Shanthala Nagar, Bengaluru – 560025. (Phones: Office: EPABX - 080-42200000, Editorial: 080- 46787878) and printed by him at Bennett Coleman & Co Ltd., The Times of India Press, No. 9/10/11-A, 4th Main, KIADB Bommasandra Industrial Area,
Anekal Taluk, Bengaluru - 560 099, Ph : 080-22899999, Registered Office Dr Dadabhai Naoroji Road, Mumbai - 400001. EDITOR (BENGALURU MARKET) Archana Rai (Responsible for selection of news under PRB Act). © - All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. REGD. NO. CPMG/KA/GPO-31/200C3-05 RNI NO. 45467/852}
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Pure Politics
Poliloquy RPRASAD
an opportunity to buy air puri-
fiers and then discuss the price
and brand with some bragging
rights. The poor , very poor and
not-so cash rich can wonder at the
purification talks and wish for
some luck by chance.
In the so-called prehis-
toric, ancient or medie-
val worlds, air and wa-
ter were pristine. But in
the self-styled ultra-
modern Gen Z era, the
fundamental units of
life have been defiled.Hence, there seems to be an either-
or situation! Choices do matter .
Further , what’s golden are thehushed silence of  the third estate
—the class that appears agitated
over so many issues, primarily
caste, creed, career , cultivation
and commerce, among others —
and the annual excitement of  the
second estate to play the seasonal
blame game where there is no
winner or loser , just acute suffer-
ers. The quietude of  the first es-
tate, which has a view on nearly
everything, is striking. 
While zoomers are too busy
with their gadgets to wonder
about the grey or the blue sky and
traditionalists in no mood to
question the goings-on, it’s now
over to the Devas, like every year ,
to execute the next step.
Pravir KumarTHERE SEEMS TO BE AN EITHER-OR SITUATION... CHOICES DO MATTERLet’s s top shrieking over an-
nual post-Diwali pollution.
This too shall pass and if  it
doesn’t, it will certainly not
bother us once we aren’t around to
be affected by the ambience. Some-
how , grey sky has an immense po-
tential to let one’s imagination run
wild — poets and writers, painters
and directors, actors and perform-
ers, all can find the colour soul-
searching. With the grey in over-
supply , grey matter is expected to
stay fully loaded.
Breathing clean air
isn’t a big deal. The real
test lies in inhaling
smog year after year
and surviving the on-
slaught. Poor , very poor
and hazardous air qual-
ity gives the cash richDeva Re Deva, It’s Over To Y ou Now!
POLIMMICK
RULES OF THE GAME
Hushed silence
of 3rdestate &
annual excite-
ment of 2 ndestate to play
blame game are golden
21 Maoist Cadres
Surrender in
Chhattisgarh
Our Political Bureau 
New Delhi: A t least 21 Maoist cadres
surrendered in Chhattisgarh’s Kan-
ker district on Sunday after handing
over 18 weapons to authorities, a poli-
ce official said. They laid down arms
under the ‘Poona Margem: Rehabili-
tation Through Reintegration’ initia-
tive started by the Bastar Range poli-
ce, the official added.
“The 21 include division commit-
tee secretary Mukesh. Thirteen we-
re women ultras. The 21 comprise fo-
ur divisional committee members,
nine area committee members and
eight were part of  the outlawed mo-
vement’s lower rungs. They all be-
long to Kuemari/Kiskodo Area Co-
mmittee of  the Keshkal division (no-
rth sub-zonal bureau) of  the Com-
munist Party of  India (Maoist),” the
official said. — With agency inputsep historical ties and shared values.
We are fellow travellers of  the Global
South.” Modi noted that the India-
Asean Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership has continued to advan-
ce. He described this strong partners-
hip as a growing pillar for global sta-
bility and sustainable development.
“This year’s theme for the Asean
summit is ‘Inclusivity and Sustainabi-
lity ,’” he said, noting that it is reflected
in shared efforts such as digital inclu-
sion, food security and resilient supp-
ly chains amid global challenges. “In-dia fully supports this vision and re-
mains committed to advancing it.”
He pointed out that India has con-
sistently stood by Asean in every dis-aster , with collaboration in disaster
response, maritime security , and the
blue economy growing rapidly .
Modi also stressed the importan-
ce of  unity in fight against terro-
rism. India has proposed to orga-
nise the second Asean-India de-
fence ministers’ meeting and the
second Asean-India Maritime Ex-
ercise. T he PM also appreciated Phi-
lippines President Ferdinand Mar-
cos for serving as India’s country co-
ordinator and welcomed East Timor
as a new member of  Asean. ‘India has always supported Asean centrality and Asean outlook in Indo-Pacific’
Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury
New Delhi: Prime minister Na-
rendra Modi on Sunday said that the
21st century is a shared era of  oppor-
tunity for India and Asean and de-
clared 2026 as the ‘Year of  Asean-In-
dia Maritime Cooperation’.
“The 21st century is our century . It is
India and Asean’s century ,” Modi said.
“I am confident that the goals of  ‘ Ase-
an Community Vision 2045’ and ‘Vik-
sit Bharat 2047’ will create a brighter
and prosperous future for humanity .”
He was virtually addressing the
22nd India-Asean summit in Kuala
Lumpur . “ Asean is a cornerstone of
India’s Act East Policy . India has al-
ways fully supported Asean cen-
trality and Asean’s outlook in the
Indo-Pacific,” the PM affirmed.
Modi also highlighted that India and
Asean account for nearly a quarter of
the world’s population and said the
connection between the two is not me-
rely geographical, but also rooted in
deep historical ties and shared values.
“We do not just share geography; we
are also connected by the thread of  de-India, Asean Fellow Travellers of
Global South: PM in Virtual T alkASEAN IS A CORNERSTONE OF INDIA’S ACT EAST POLICY: MODI
so revealed that PM Gowda offered “50%
of  ministerial berths” in his ministry to
Congress and Kesri refused to fall for that
too even though some senior Congress
members were open to it.
“When differences started cropping up
between the UF government and Cong-
ress (which had extended outside support
to the government), prime minister HD
Deve Gowdaji made some efforts to buySitaram Kesri Spurned PM Gowda’ s Bid to Lure
him with Rashtrapati’ s Post, says T ariq Anwar
CL Manoj
New Delhi: Even as the Gandhis-controlled
Congress leadership acknowledged the lega-
cy of  the dethroned party president Sitaram
Kesri last week, senior party leader Tariq An-
war , who was the all-powerful political secre-
tary of  the then party chief  Kesri during 1996-
98, has revealed in an interview to ETthat the
then prime minister of  the United Front go-
vernment HD Deve Gowda had offered to ma-
ke Kesri the President of  India in 1997. This
was part of  Gowda’s peace-deal to try and ce-
ment Congress’ support to his tottering regi-
me. However , the septuagenarian Kesri spur-
ned it, treating it as a “bait” and a “plot to divi-
de Congress”. He went ahead on the path that
eventually led to the Congress president ous-
ting the Gowda government by forcing the UF
leadership to foist IK Gujral as the prime mi-
nister to extend (briefly) its ill-fated reign.
Anwar , now a CWC member and MP , al-FORMER CONGRESS PRESIDENT’S POLITICAL SECRETARY SPEAKS OUT
peace with Congress president Sitaram
Kesriji. The PM proposed that Kesriji co-
uld be made the Rastrapati (President of
India) as the term of  the then President
Shankar Dayal Sharma was coming to an
end in 1997. The PM also offered Congress
50% of  the ministerial posts. The then mi-
nister CM Ibrahim (a Gowda confidant)
brought the proposals to Kesriji on behalf
of  the then PM. After it was conveyed tohim, Kesriji told me about it. He also dis-
cussed it with some other senior Cong-
ress leaders,” Anwar told ET.
Anwar said: “Kesriji was of  the firm view
that the proposals were a political bait to en-
sure the survival of  the Gowda govern-
ment. Kesriji also felt the proposals were a
conspiracy to divide Congress. Kesriji
firmly rejected the proposals. He believed
that the Congress would regain its strength
and would lead its own government after
the UF government’s fall. Some senior
Congress leaders were in favour of  joining
the Gowda government, but Kesriji (who
was also leader of  the Congress Parliamen-tary Party) firmly put his foot down.”
Incidentally , Sharad Pawar was the then
Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabha.
Within months of  the ouster of  the Gow-
da government, KR Narayanan became
the President of  India in 1997 as the joint
candidate of  UF-Congress-Left.
Anwar also said that, among other
things, the then government’s “blackma-
iling tactics” led to Kesri finally rallying
the Congress leadership in pulling the
plug on the Deve Gowda government.
“When it became evident that Kesriji,
who was a freedom fighter and had an im-
peccable public life, including 17 long ye-
ars as AICC treasurer , without any taint
of  corruption, can’t be lured with power
deals, there was an attempt by the then
PMO to blackmail him, through a CBI in-
quiry into a manufactured case (the Tan-
war murder case). A section of  disgrunt-
led Congress leaders was also behind it.
But Kesri ji refused to be cowed down. He
took it as an attempt to bulldoze him and
Congress. That, among other issues, led
to the Congress withdrawing support to
Gowda, resulting in his government’s
downfall,” Anwar added.
Incidentally , the Kesri-led Congress also
pulled down the Gujral regime in 1998 over
the Jain Commission report finding.
When differences started cropping up between the UF government 
and Congress (which had extended outside support), prime minister 
HD Deve Gowdaji made some efforts to buy peace with Con -
gress president SITARAM KESRIJI . The PM pro -
posed that Kesriji could be made the Rastra -
pati (President of India) as the term of the 
then President Shankar Dayal Sharma 
was coming to an end in 1997. The PM also 
offered Congress 50% of the ministerial posts. The then minister CM Ibrahim (a 
Gowda confidant) brought the proposals to 
Kesriji on behalf of the then PM. After it 
was conveyed to him, Kesriji told me 
about it. He also discussed it with 
some other senior Congress leaders
TARIQ ANWARCongress Working Committee Member
Kesri spurned the offer,
treating it as a ‘bait’ and a
‘plot to divide Congress’WHY KESRI PULLED THE PLUG
The then govern-
ment’s blackmailing
tactics led to Kesri
finally rallying the Congress
leadership in pulling the plug
on the Deve Gowda govern-
ment, says Congress MP
cus was not on developing “big com-
mercial ventures” but on facilitating
people living within the sanctuaries.
Many of  them were heavily depen-
dent on tourism for their livelihood
but were unable to develop even local
tourism-linked small-scale infrast-
ructure like homestays and guest ho-
uses due to the Wildlife Act, it was
shared at a meeting by Ladakh chief
secretary Pawan Kotwal. Seeking
permissions was often a ‘long and
time consuming process’ and hen-
ce a deterrent for the inhabitants.
Tashi Gyalson, Chief  Executive Co-
uncillor , Leh Ladakh Autonomous Hill
Development Council, said delays in
providing essential services such as
electricity , drinking water , road con-
nectivity , etc was discouraging people
from continuing to live in remote are-
as. This was leading to a worrying ‘de-
population of  border villages’.
Gyalson pointed out that the conti-
nued presence of  villagers in border
areas would be critical for ‘maintai-
ning vigilance and securing our in-
ternational borders’. This is a cruci-
al concern as the two sanctuaries are
vital to India’s strategic interests.Ladakh’s Karakoram,
Changthang Reserves
Set for New Boundary
Anubhuti Vishnoi
New Delhi: A major proposal to
redraw the boundaries and expan-
se of  the strategic Changthang and
Karakoram sanctuaries in Ladakh
— key areas of  interest for defence,
unique biodiversity and local eco-
nomic potential — is set to come to
the Centre for final clearance.
It was proposed by the Ladakh
State Wildlife Board at its Septem-
ber 19 meeting that the Karakoram
wildlife sanctuary’s new revised
area should stand at 16,550 sq km
while Changthang’s at 9, 695 sq km.
This ‘rectification’ is much hig-
her than the near 5,000 sq km and
4,000 sq km notified, respectively ,
for the two sanctuaries in 1987.
The new boundaries, however , will
involve exclusion of  1,742 sq km
from the Karakoram (Nubra-Shy-
ok) WLS and another 164 sq km from
the high-altitude cold desert WLS in
Changthang, ET has learnt.
In case of  the Karakoram sanctuary ,
the excluded zone will run along the
Nubra-Shyok rivers in a linear fashion
as the habitation is so located in the
area. In case of  Changthang, the exclu-
ded area will be in pockets around hu-
man habitation. Both areas were de-
clared wildlife sanctuaries through a
government notification in 1987.
However , nearly four decades later
it is felt that the 1987 notification did
not constitute a properly defined
area and that there is a mismatch in
the description of  North-South-
East-West boundaries. The actual
area was said to be 3-4 times larger
than what was notified in 1987.
The ‘rationalisation’ of  the two
sanctuaries has, accordingly , been
proposed after a detailed study by
the Wildlife Institute of  India (WII)
and discussions with local stake-
holders and the administration.
WII, it is learnt, has identified High
Conservation Value Areas (HCV As) in
both the protected areas (on the basis
of  six parameters) which should be gi-
ven highest levels of  protection and
considerable restriction in activities.
10 HCV As have been identified in Kara-
koram sanctuary and 17 in Chang-
thang sanctuary , with wildlife corri-
dors spanning 9 sq km in the former .
It is, however , the excluded area
including 67 and 45 villages in the
two sanctuaries respectively , that
is key to unlocking economic acti-
vity and tourism potential in the
Himalayan region, it is argued.
Deliberations held at the 13th mee-
ting of  the Ladakh State Board of  Wild-
life on September 19 noted that the fo-KEY EXCLUSION: 100 PLUS VILLAGES IN WLS ZONE
27 high conservation
areas identified for full
protection; grazing
rights to continue
meeting published by Bangladesh.
Mirza is the seniormost Pakista-
ni military officer to visit Dhaka
since the two militaries started to
rebuild ties this January . There
are some reports that Mirza could
visit some border areas closer to
the northern part of  West Bengal.
It may be recalled that the Pakistani
spy agency , ISI, has sought to regain its
influence in Bangladesh within
months of  PM Sheikh Hasina’s ouster .
SPY RING
Establishing ISI presence in strate-
gic areas of  Bangladesh in what wo-
uld revive Pakistan Army’s presen-
ce in the same areas from the pre-1971
days figured high on the agenda
when the ISI brass visited Dhaka
this January . ET had then reported
that the ISI is seeking to establish its
presence in Cox’s Bazar , Ukhia, Tek-
naf, Moulvibazar , Habiganj and
Sherpur areas of  Bangladesh.Pakistan Military on
Mission Bangladesh
Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury
New Delhi: The Pakistan military ,
facing setbacks in Afghanistan, is see-
king to boost its ties with Bangladesh.
General Shamshad Mirza, the num-
ber two in the hierarchy after Field
Marshal Asim Munir , is currently to-
uring Dhaka to expand connectivity ,
trade and defence partnerships.
Mirza on Saturday met the interim
government’s chief  adviser Md Yunus
and has plans to meet chiefs of  Bangla-
desh Army , Navy and Air Force. Bang-
ladesh National Security Adviser Kha-
lilur Rahman and Pakistan High Com-
missioner to Bangladesh Imran Hai-
der were present during the meeting.
“They discussed a wide range of  issu-
es concerning Bangladesh-Pakistan
relations, including the growing im-
portance of  bilateral trade, invest-
ment and defence cooperation. Dhaka-
–Karachi air route is expected to open
within months,” said a readout of  theAFTER SETBACKS IN AFGHANISTAN
Dhaka–Karachi air
route is expected to
open within months,
as per meeting readout
MIRZA’S LIKELY TRIP
Mirza may visit
some border
areas closer to
northern West Bengal
US-Pak Ties
Not Directed
Against India,
says Rubio
Our Political Bureau
New Delhi: US secretary of
state Marco Rubio has defen-
ded his country’s ties with Pa-
kistan, including counterter-
rorism partners-
hip, while affir-
ming that they
are not directed
against India.
Without men-
tioning India’s
relations with
Russia or Iran, he
said India has ties
with nations with
which the US do-
es not have relationships. 
On the US-Pakistan ties, he
said, “We’ve had a long histo-
ry of  partnering with Pakis-
tan on counterterror and
things of  that nature. ‘India has ties with
nations with which
the US does not
have relationships’
We’ve had a
long history
of partnering
with Pak: US
secy of state
‘Op Sindoor,
Fight Against
Maoists Made
Fests Vibrant’
Our Political Bureau
New Delhi: Prime Minister
Narendra Modi asserted in his
monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ add-
ress on Sunday that Operation
Sindoor and the
successful fight
against Maoist
terror have made
festivals more vi-
brant. He also hai-
led the impressive
sales during the
festivals due to
GST Bachat Utsav .
He wished the
people, especial-
ly those from poll-bound Bi-
har , on the occasion of
Chhath Puja. “The Mahapar-
va of  Chhath is a reflection
of  the deep unity between
culture, nature and society .”MANN KI BAAT 
PM hails impressive
sales due to GST
Bachat Utsav
Mahaparva
of Chhath is a
reflection of
deep unity,
says Modi
R PRASAD
India and Asean together represent
almost a quarter of the world’s pop-
ulation. We do not just share geog-
raphy; we are also connected by the thread
of deep historical ties and shared values
THANKING MARCOS
PM appreciates Philip-
pines President Marcos
for serving as India’s
country coordinator
IANS
 Karakoram  
 (Nubra-Shyok)  
 Wildlife Sanctuary 
Boundary 
Proposal:  
16,550  
sq km
Boundary 
Proposal: 
9,695  sq kmArea includes  
Daulat Beg Oldi, Galwan Valley, among others Involves parts of  
 Siachen glacier  
Bound on east by international 
boundary with China
Best breeding grounds for  
black-necked crane,  
bar-headed goose, ruddy 
shelduck, lesser sand plover, common redshank and common ternPangong Tso lies to its westNorth and east bound by LAC with China, West with Pakistan
Eastern part of 
Ladakh; 130 
km from LehMountain cliffs crucial for many herbivore species like blue sheep, ibex, snow leopard and Eurasian lynx
 Changthang 
 Sanctuary Govt Planning
Tech Spaces
around B’luru
to Decongest
Hubs: Dy CM 
Our Bureau
Bengaluru: The Karnataka
government is drawing up
plans to build technology spa-
ces around Bengaluru to ease
pressure on the existing tech
hubs and reduce the long com-
muting time of  professionals
arising out of  firms clustering
around two-three locations,
deputy chief  minister DK Shi-
vakumar said.
He said Bengaluru is home to
one of  the world’s largest tech
worker populations, throwing
up its own set of  challenges. At
around 2.5 million people,
Bengaluru’s tech professio-
nals number far higher than
that of  California, and the Ou-
ter Ring Road (ORR) itself  ac-
counts for a million plus of
these people.
“We want to shorten the tra-
vel time of  people, and we have
astrategy for that,” Shivaku-
mar told media
persons at Cub-
bon Park on
Sunday .
The deputy
CM said he had
successful dis-
cussions with
industry lea-
ders, including
Biocon founder
Kiran Mazum-
dar-Shaw and
venture capita-
list Mohandas Pai, on Satur-
day night. “I have told them
that we will work together for
Bengaluru. They have agre-
ed,” Shivakumar said.
The meeting came after a se-
ries of  critical social media
posts by Mazumdar-Shaw , Pai
and other business leaders
and the state’s ministers. The
social media war ended with
both sides greeting each other
on Deepavali. The deputy CM
requested industry leaders to
weigh their thoughts before
raising the city's issue on soci-
al media as “any (negative)
news coming about Bengalu-
ru would become world news”.
“We had a very constructive
meeting with the Deputy CM
to agree to an action plan to fix
key infra bottlenecks in roads,
ORR, peripheral ring road,
drainage, traffic and garba-
ge,” Mazumdar-Shaw said in a
post on X. “ A public dashboard
on progress of  projects will be
shared.” Pai said, “We look to
the future with hope.”
BIG PLANS FOR ORR
Shivakumar said he had big
plans for ORR and had asked
IT-BT minister Priyank Khar-
ge to meet with CEOs of  com-
panies housed on the ORR
stretch and discuss the matter
with them ahead of  the Benga-
luru Tech Summit, scheduled
for November.‘Industry leaders
have agreed to join
hands with govt 
to work for city’
We want to
shorten the
travel time of
people, and
we have a
strategy for
that: DKS
CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGPOL User: shruti.pathak Time: 10-26-2025 23:42 Color:CMYK
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.Privy to the whispers in power corridors or juicy tips on India Inc?  
Do share with us at etsuits.sayings@timesofindia.com
SUITS & SAYINGS
ZAHID
ET’s roundup of the wackiest whispers and murmurs in 
corporate corridors & policy parlours
Shaky  Foundation  
The non-profit set up on the birth centenary of a former bank 
chair who revolutionised India’s mortgage business is facing cash-flow problems. Two years ago, the foundation received a handsome sum of several hundred crores from its key sponsor, then a publicly listed company. Now, the regulator has come down heavily on that contribution, asking the foundation to return the money in full. It’s not clear if the reason for this is the timing of the gift — just days prior to the merger of its mortgage unit with the financial institution it spawned — or the fact that the foundation is helmed by a family member.
On the Hot Seat 
Some are more equal than others 
— but not when it comes to VVIP security. Some family members of this super-influential industrialist learnt this the hard 
way at the inauguration of a mega  
infrastructure project billed as a new gateway to India’s growth story. Several guests were heard grumbling about finding a place to sit after a long and tedious journey. But they were still 
bemused to see even the brother of the businessman — a key figure in the empire himself — struggling
 
for a seat inside the special enclosure meant for family and esteemed guests. With mobile jammers on, a hasty retreat from the venue also became a near-impossible exercise.Bonus  Blow
Ever since it was launched a few years back, the clawback clause on fat annual bonus cheques had always been a cause for heartburn for bankers at this former top-tier European investment bank. They had grudgingly accepted that if they left in between, a portion of the windfall had to be returned, since nobody had a clue then about the future at that point. But it’s come back to haunt several ex-employees, many of whom had finally landed on their feet after the tumultuous years in the interim. The HR department of the new parent organisation has been sending legal notices, exercising the dreaded clause, to executives who had left amid drastic restructuring of roles and positions that are de rigueur after such takeovers. No bonus and zero value on ESOPs had already made this a disgruntled bunch. Last heard, several are lawyering up to challenge their ex-employer.3/triangle45left
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Companies: Pursuit of Profit 
matic”, and I-T officers have the po-
wer to give taxpayers some latitudedepending on the facts and circums-tances.The special bench was formed as tri-
bunals were taking divergent views:some laying down that a fine is man-datory for non-disclosure while a fewtribunal benches ruling that the I-Tassessing officers have the discretionto pardon the penalty . A plain readingof  the law suggests the latter . Tribu-nals are quasi-judicial authorities.
Section 43 of  the Black Money (Un-
disclosed Foreign Income and As-
sets) and Imposition of  TaxAct, 2015 says : if  any personfails to furnish any infor-mation or furnishes inaccu-rate particulars relating as-
sets located outside India, held byhim as a beneficial owner or otherwi-se, “the assessing officer ‘may’ directthat such person ‘shall’ pay , by way ofpenalty , a sum of  ten lakh rupees.”
In its order released a week ago, the
special bench said, “… it is (a) well es-tablished principle of  interpretationof  statutes, that the words must be gi-ven their plain and ordinary mea-ning, unless it leads to absurd resultsor consequences which could neverbe intended. 
Applying this test, the use of  the
word ‘may’ would clearly indicatethat it is discretionary in nature.” Inday-to-day usage, the word ‘may’talks about possibilities while ‘shall’hints at obligations. However , whenthe king says ‘may’, it is a command,not a request.
According to the verdict, tax autho-
rities cannot use ‘may’ and ‘shall’ in-terchangeably while invoking Sec-tion 43 of  the harsh statute. 
‘May’ Isn’t ‘Shall’ Penalty Not Norm in Black Money Law: ITAT
Sugata Ghosh
Mumbai: A splitting of  hairs over
‘may’ and ‘shall’, the simple modalverbs of  English grammar , has comeas relief  for many who invested in fo-reign shares and properties legitima-tely but failed to disclose them in the-ir income tax (I-T) returns. Under thestern anti-Black Money law , a penal-ty of  ` `10 lakh can be imposed on a tax-
payer for not reporting his offshoreassets. A fine can also trigger prose-cution proceedings.
Preferring the ordinary meaning of
the two English words in the relevantpart of  the statute, a special bench ofthe Income Tax Appellate Tribunalhas ruled that a penalty is not “auto-
BM A ct came 
into effect in 
mid 2015
It aims to re-
cover money 
stashed abroad
But recovery so far has been less than expectedA panel of senior 
tax offi  cers is cur-
rently reviewing 
the lawMotive MattersTax officials can now use discretion to pardon fine when a person fails to report foreign assets, says the ruling
RIL’s Investments in AI
Infra may Hit $15 b: Report
PTI
New Delhi: Billionaire Mu-
kesh Ambani’s Reliance Indu-stries may spend about $12-15billion over the next few yearson AI infrastructure that couldinclude a giant 1GW data cent-re, Morgan Stanley said in a re-port. Ambani had at the compa-ny’s annual shareholder mee-ting in August announced a ma-jor push into AI through a newsubsidiary and strategic part-nerships.
A new wholly-owned subsidi-
ary , Reliance Intelligence willspearhead the conglomerate’sAI initiatives that will be cente-red around four pillars—In-frastructure (building giga-watt-scale, AI-ready data cen-ters), Partnerships (collabora-ting with global tech leaders tobring cutting-edge AI solutionsto India), Services (developingAI-powered services tailoredfor Indian consumers, small bu-sinesses, and enterprises in sec-tors like education, healthcare,and agriculture) and Talent (in-
vesting in upskilling and nur-
turing India’s AI workforce).
Reliance has re-invented itself
every decade, and AI is set toreshape its equity story , Mor-gan Stanley said in the report.
Gen AI deployment enableslarge-scale capital deploymentwhile unlocking value throughsynergies across energy , digi-tal, consumer , and media verti-cals. 
“We estimate that Reliance
will spend approximately $12-15billion on AI infrastructure todevelop a 1GW datacenter , un-
derwriting abo-
ut 25% of  the ca-
pacity itself  (ro-ughly $7 billionfor datacenterinfrastructure
and $5 billionfor the 250MWof  chips thecompany willdeploy direct-ly),” it said.
It is expected
that the remai-
ning capacity will be leased tohyperscalers and LLM provi-ders as ‘Datacenter as a Servi-ce’.
The first phase of  the data
centre is already underway inJamnagar , Gujarat.
“We believe Reliance can utili-
se its initial 100MW of  Gen AIdatacenter capacity — which ithas indicated will scale up overtwo years — to address inferen-ce demand from enterprises, aspart of  its enterprise stack offe-ring and sovereign AI initiati-ves,” it said.
Co plans major
push into AI
via newsubsidiary,Reliance
Intelligence,
and strategic
partnerships
AI initiatives will be centred around 4 pillars:
infrastructure, partnerships, services, talent 
Jessica Rajan 
& Disha Acharya
New Delhi | Bengaluru:
The month-long festive se-
ason recorded about 27%year-on-year growth in sa-les on ecommerce plat-forms, driven by a revivalin consumer sentiment af-ter across-the-board GSTcuts and robust demandfrom non-metro cities,analysts said.
“Ecommerce sales grew
26-to-28% this year due toan overall positive senti-ment for consumption,”said Amar Choudhary , chi-ef  executive, 1Lattice. “De-spite no major increase indiscounts, growth was dri-ven by a wider productmix, D2C brands, and newcategories like puja essen-tials.”
In August, ET had repor-
ted that ecommerce mar-ketplaces and online retai-lers were expected to ship
` `1.2 lakh crore worth of  go-
ods this festive season, up27% from last year . Whilelatter projections sugges-ted growth could top 30%after GST cuts made most
goods cheaper , sales mat-
ched the earlier 27% fore-cast, initial assessments atthe conclusion of  the festi-Diwali-style sales on apps.Flipkart Minutes saw 1.5times growth with over 1.9million orders betweenOctober 18 and 22, whileBigBasket reported a 500%year-on-year GMV increa-se. Myntra M-Now doubledits orders during the festi-ve period.
The surge was also reflec-
ted in UPI transactions,which hit a record ` `94,000
crore in average daily va-lue in October , up 13% fromSeptember .
D2C Brands
Analysts said marketpla-
ces drove volume while qu-ick commerce expandedreach.
“The market is shifting
toward quality , feature dif-ferentiation, and content-led discovery rather thanpure price wars,” saidPrabhav Mohta, associatedirector , GoBoult.
Snitch recorded 35% to
40% year-on-year growth,while Uppercase saw 40%higher demand than lastyear . “Discounting wasmore strategic this year ,”said Siddharth Dungarwa,founder of  Snitch, notingthat the brand focused oncurated combos and limi-ted-period offers.
Uppercase’s B2B busi-
ness grew 2.5 to 3 times,driven by Diwali gifting.“Luggage remains a keygifting category during Di-wali,” said Sudip Ghose,founder and managing di-rector of  Uppercase.GST CUTS, ROBUST DEMAND FROM NON-METROS
Month-long Festive Show
Delivers a Big Ecomm Hit 
Sales up 27% from last year amid revival in consumer sentiment
A Cart Above
17% YoY 
growthin 2024 festive seasonRecord engagementfor Amazon, Flipkart, Meesho
QUICK COMMERCE 
Contributed 12% of overall 
festive sales                
500% uptick in GMV for Bigbasket
D2C FOCUSDriven by last-minutepurchases and gifting
35-40% growth for Snitch
40% RISE IN 
DEMAND AT UPPERCASE
DRIVERS:  Revived 
sentiment, new brands and niche categories, GST cuts
1.5x weekly order growth for Flipkart Minutes
val season showed.
The ecommerce festive
sales began September 23,
a day after the revised GSTtook effect, and concludedaround Diwali on October20. The period was crucialfor online marketplaces af-ter last year’s slowdownhad dented FY25 revenuesat Amazon India and Flip-kart.
Amazon’s Great Indian
Festival 2025 saw its hig-hest-ever visits of  2.76 bil-lion, with more than 70%of  the customers co-ming from tier II andtier III cities. Premi-um smartphone salesclimbed 30% year-on-year ,festive decor as a categorysurged six fold, AmazonIndia data showed.
Flipkart also reported
strong demand across mo-biles, electronics, largeappliances, and fashion,though it did not disclosespecific numbers.
Blinkit, Swiggy Insta-
mart, Zepto and Meeshodid not respond to ET's qu-eries.
QUICK COMMERCE BOOST
Quick commerce contri-
buted around 12% of  totalfestive gross merchandisevalue (GMV), driven bylast-minute purchases and
FOR FULL REPORT, GO TO
www.economictimes.comCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGECO User: aarcha.lino Time: 10-26-2025 23:36 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................PURVA BLUBELLE
Adjacent to Magadi Road
Metro station  RAJAJI-NAGAR  3 BHK & Exclus-ive  5 BHK Flats + ServantRoom  with all luxuriousAmenities, Only fewunits   left   for  Sale Call Owner : 9844027560.
SITE FOR SALE JUDICIAL
LA YOUT , YELAHANKA,
Near Playground  40x60Site South facing. Contact:9440620970.
YELAHANKA NEW Town
Bengaluru opp : Bishop cot-
ton College 20,000 sq.ft readycommercial space for RENT ,ideal for Offices / Show-rooms/  Institutions. SeriousEnquiries only . Contact Nagaraj :9008095616.
4/triangle45right
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Economy
requir es unanimous decision. I n-
siders say  this is fr esh terri tory
for the tr usts as during R atan T a-
ta’s stewar dship of  the gr oup in
the last few decades, tr ust deci-
sions did not go into vote.
Unlike co mpanies wher e gover-
nance is standar dised under the
Companies Act and other ap
pli-
cable la ws, tr ust affairs are deter-
mined b y a combina tion of  r ules
under the Maharashtra Public
Trusts Act, the tr ust deed (or the
will b y wh ich the t rust was esta b-
lished, as in the c ase of  Sir R atan
Tata Trust, f ounded in 1916) and re-
solutions passed b y trustees fr om
time to time .
The tr ust deed of  the Sir Dora bji
Tata Trust, written in 1932, presc-
ribes tha t quor um requir es thr eetrustees to be pr esent and “the de-
cision of  a majority of  the tr ustees
present at a meeting shall bind the
minority”.
KEY RESOLUTION
There’s also a mor e recent resolu-
tion tha t is relevant. On October
17, nine day s after R atan T ata’s de-
ath, the tr ustees met, mar king the
“moment of  transition betweentwo eras”, pledging themselv es to
the vision and ethos of  the foun-
ding fathers and resolving to “ act
unitedl y and in service of 
 the
objects and purp oses of  the
trusts”. 
They decided tha t all tr ustees,
upon e xpiry of  their ten ure, “w ill
be reapp ointed b y the concern ed
trust without any l imit being atta-ched to the period of  ten ure of
suc
h reapp ointment”, accor ding
to the r esolution, a copy of  wh ich
ET has reviewed . This means all
trustees will be r enewed fo r life.
But the r esolution offers inadequ-
ate clarity o ver the mechanism b y
which th is will be done .
ET first reported tha t Mistry , a
long-time confidant of
 the la te Ra-
tan T ata, last week issued a condi-
tional appr oval for Srinivasan ’s
reapp ointment as tr ustee and vice
chairman of  SDTT . 
His email, sent la te on October 21,
demanded recipr ocity in the r ene-
wal of
 his own term.
His email seemed to ack nowled-
ge tha t reapp ointment for l ife re-
quir es a unanimous decision b y
trustees . “For the av oidance of  do-
ubt, should any t rustee elect not to
pass this resolution reap p ointing
Venu Srinivasan o r an identical
unanimous resolution fo r allother t rustees as and when their
respectiv e ten ures expir e, then in
such e vent, I do not provide my for-
mal appr oval for the r eapp oint-
ment of  Ven u Srinivasan. 
Needless to say , I do not expect
suc
h a situa tion to arise,” Mehli’s
response sta ted.
“Ther e is an interna l deba te on
whether M istry might call off  his
appr oval for Srinivasan and e ven
legally contest the decision b y the
three tr ustees to not to r enew  h is
term ,” a sour ce said. 
Tata, Srinivasan, and Singh are
understood to hav e sought le gal
advice on the issue . The thr ee of
them d id not respond to emailed
requests for comment.
Others, howev er, dismissed Mist-
ry’s move as un tena bl e .
“A  c o nditional appr oval is not le-
gally tena ble. One cannot appr ove
a resolution and then w ithdra w it
once passed,” said one tr ustee .Appointments of  tr ustees, as
other decisions, b y conv ention h a-
ve been done unanimousl y at Tata
Trusts. Trustees br ok
e from con-
vention o n September 11, about a
year after the dea th of  long-ser-
ving patriar ch R atan T ata, when
they voted b y majority decision to
remove f orm er defence secr etary
Vijay Singh as a nominee dir ector
on the boar d of  T ata Sons . 
That set off  a ch ain of  e vents tha t
drew nation-wide attention to the
infighting at India’s most high-
profile public tr usts.
Th
ere’s lack of  cl arity about
whether in the e vent of  diffe ren-
ces, the r eapp ointment of  a t rus-
tee can be done b y majority vote orfrom $23. 5 billion in FY23 to $38. 5
billion in FY25. “ At the cu rrent ra-
te, elect ronics e xports will doub le
from FY23 to FY26,” an analyst sa-
id.
OIL’S NOT WELL
Some exper ts said petr oleum e x-
ports may see a f aster decline as US
sanctions hav e put paid to low-pri-
ced Russian c rude, taking away  the
cost advantage for I ndian refiners .
“The expor ts wer e going down de-
spite the cost ad vantage due to R us-
sian o il for the past few y ears.
When this advantage is no long er
av-ailable, the expor ts may
suffer mor e,” said one
of  them.
The gap between se-
cond-placed petr oleum
and electr onics in the
first six months nar-
rowed fr om $73.9 billion at
the be ginning of
 the PLI
scheme to $24.7 billion in
FY25. Th at will likel y
shrink to $16 billion in
FY26, exper ts said.
While petr oleum products will re-
tain thir d position in FY26, a t the
curr ent rate of  gr owth, electr onics
could well r eplace petr oleum as In-
dia’
s second larg est expor t by
FY28. It is now the q uickest in the first s ix
months of  FY26 among all 30 e x-
port categories. 
In its race to the thir d spot, elec-
tronics d islodg ed gems and jewelle-
ry and che micals from thir d and f o-
urth place, respectiv ely, in FY25. 
Befor e that, in its surg e to number
3from number 7 in  FY22, i t had out-
paced d rugs and pharmaceuti cals
and readymade garm ents.
Accor ding to the h alf-yearly ex-
port data relea sed b y the comme rce
ministry , elect ronics e x-ports
surg ed 42% to $22. 2b il-
lion — a bout h alf
 of
which is accoun ted
for by Apple’s iPhon es
—from $15 .6 billion
in the y ear earli-
er.
Petroleum products
fell 1
6.4% to $30. 6 billion
from $36. 6 billion. Engi-
neering  led a t $59 .3 bil-
lion, up 5.35% f rom $56. 3
billion the y ear prior. Petroleum ,
still India’s secon d-larg est e xport
category, has bee n in dec line —
from $97. 4 billion in FY23, to $63. 3
billion in FY25.
Electr onics e xports in the l ast
three years h ave jumped 63% —
from their recor ds. 
The Nifty closing h igh is 26,216.05
and tha t of  the Sensex is 85,836. 12.
“Domestic buying h as so f ar cus-
hioned any downside, and with FIIs
turning o ptimistic, be nchmar ks co-
uld scale new h ighs b y the end of
next month,” said Dhu pesh Dhame-
ja, deri
vatives analyst at Samco Se-Fourth W eek of Market Gaining
The liquida tion of  bearish bets hap -
pened along w ith shar e purchases.
Accor ding to da ta from the stock
exchanges and Stockedg e, foreign
portfolio investors (FPIs) hav e bo-
ught shar es wor th ` `1,880 cr ore in
October so f ar, having sold to the tu-
ne of  ` `22,761 cr ore in September.  
T
hese investors hav e sold equities
worth almost ` `1.96 lakh cr ore this ye-
ar, a recor d, putting pressur e on
stocks and the r upee .
The Nifty and Sensex gained 0.3%
last week, lo gging their fou rth stra-
ight week of  gain s, though mar ke t
momentum f izzled out la te last week
around the highs . In October , both
indices gained about 5% each and
are 1.6% and 1 .9% away, respectiv ely,curities . “ A sustained long-shor t ra-
tio above 30% could fur ther fuel the
rally, potentiall y taking N ifty to-
war ds 26,400 le vels b y No vember -
end.”
T
he Nifty closed a t 25,795. 15 and
the Sensex at 84,211 .88 on F riday .
The long-shor t ratio of  FPIs’ Nifty
futur es positions hit a lifetime low
of  5.98% on September 30, the f irst
day after the expiry of  the month’s
futur es and options contracts .
“In e arly October , FIIs wer e heavi ly
bearish due to weak global cues, tra-
de tensions, and high valuations,”
said Somil Mehta, head of  alterna te
resear ch, Mirae Asset Shar ekhan. 
“But when the N ifty held fir m abo-
ve the 25,000 mar k instead of  br ea-
king down, traders rushed to co ver
shor ts.”
“While the (Indian) governm ent has
been wo rking o n plans to a ttain self-
sufficienc y in rare ear th magnet pro-
duction, the challe nge is the tec hnolo-
gy and the equipment are also contr ol-
led b y China,” a second industry e x-
ecutiv e said. 
Sour cing e quipment fr om Germany
and J apan would
shoot up costsand affect the vi-
ability of  pr o-
jects, he said.
Earlier this
month, the Ex-
penditur e Finan-
ce Committee
green-lighted the incentiv e sc
heme
that seeks to pr ovide both capi tal and
opera tional expenditur e to suppor t
firms for setting u p rare ear th magnet
processing u nits and suppl y chains in
India. “This ma y impact the new scheme the
Centr e has announced to incentivi se
local man ufacturing of  rar e ear th
magnets,” said the ex ecutiv e.
As per an announcement b y China’s
Bureau of  Security and Contr ol ear li-
er this month, expo rt contr ols will be
imposed on rare ear th production and
processing e quipment w
hich includes
“centrifuga l extraction e quipment for
rare ear th processing; intellig ent con-
tinuous impurity-r emoval and preci-
pita tion e quipment f or ionic rare
earth or es”.
Expor ters of  these items must apply
for a licence as well as indica te whet-
her they are “dual-use contr olled”
(wher e the items hav e both civi lian
and military application s), it said.Shop , which sells impor ted cos-
metics in India thr ough its local
partner Quest Retail, along w ith
other global brands such as Ki-
ehl’s, A von, K ylie Cosmetics and
Max F actor , too ar e in the pr ocess
of  finalising man ufacturing part-
ners in the country . 
Estee Lauder , which h as nine glo-
bal man ufacturing s ites across the
US, Eur ope and J apan, has already
launched some limited-editionproducts made in India thr ough a
third party. Its global president and
chief 
 executiv e Stéphane de
La F averie had said at a
Barclays Consumer Sta-
ples confer ence in
September tha t the
cosmetics make r
had appr oved
a “massiv e in-
vestment” in
India to ca ter to
incr easing
aspira tio- nal demand. Without
specifying the amount of
 inv est-
ment, he had said, “In I ndia, one of
the winning stra tegies has been
the de ployment of  small sizes . 
The ability to bring luxury pro-
ducts at a mass affordab le price po-
ints, is going to be critical for us to
win in the mar ket.”Exclusive Mfg Tie-ups
“ A few hav e already set up such f a-
cilities,” said Sharma of  Shiseido,
though he declined to specify a ti-
me frame for star ting man ufactu-
ring in the country .
The past year alone has seen luxu-
ry beauty l abels Rar e Beauty b y Se-
lena Gome
z, Rihanna’s Fe nty Be-
auty , Anomal y by Priyanka Cho-
pra, H&M Beauty and Dubai’s Hu-
da Beauty e ntering the
Indian mar ket.
“We hav e enquiries
from two global cele-
brity-owned luxurybeauty b rands to find
local partners f
 or
man ufacturing,” an
executiv e at a Del-
hi-based cos-metics im-
porter s aid
on condition ofanonymity.  “Ev en if  these would
likely be thir d-par ty man ufactu-
rers to be gin w ith, the global
brands are looking  for man ufactu-
ring partnerships tha t are exc
lusi-
ve, for mid-tier pricing.”
US’ Estée Lauder Companies,
which ow ns Mac, Bobbi B rown and
Clinique, and the UK’s The Bod y
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtFrom Page 1
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtFrom Page 1Seen Doubling in 3 Years
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtFrom Page 1Licence Mandatory
/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtFrom Page 1/trianglecentrt /trianglecentrtFrom Page 1Unanimity a Norm CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETCECO1 User: raghav.jindal Time: 10-27-2025 00:52 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGECO2 User: k.eswar Time: 10-26-2025 21:59 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.In a move that challenges the very spirit of  free inquiry , GoI has
asked ministries to revisit how PhD guides are chosen and to
steer doctoral research toward innovation, national priorities
and stronger academia—industry collaboration. While closer
ties with industry are desirable, the zealous drive to accelerate
R&D— from dictating who can guide to what may be resear-
ched—risks stifling academic freedom.
For a country racing to catch up in the global innovation swe-
epstakes, the temptation to direct research toward state-decla-
red priorities is understandable. After all, central planning of
research yielded visible results in China and the erstwhile So-
viet Union. But those models came with a heavy cost—narro-
wing the field of  enquiry , silencing uncon-
ventional thought, and often discouraging
the very curiosity that fuels genuine disco-
very . No matter how well-intentioned, a
‘helping hand’ that steers too tightly ends
up throttling what it seeks to nurture.
Astate-approved list of  research themes
or mentors would push aside ‘non-priori-
ty’ areas — the arts, humanities, and blue-sky sciences that of-
ten yield breakthroughs because they wander off  the beaten
path. Innovation rarely flourishes under supervision. It thri-
ves in the freely explored, where failure is tolerated and curiosi-
ty unrestrained. Academic freedom is not an indulgence; it is
the oxygen of  progress and the foundation on which great na-
tions build their scientific and cultural capital. India’s chal-
lenge is to find that balance between guiding research and
granting freedom. GoI should identify national priorities and
channel more incentives toward them. But that must come as
an invitation, not an instruction. The record worldwide is cle-
ar: chokeholds on research do not produce results — freedom,
diversity , and a culture that celebrates questioning do.Let a Hundred Minds
Explore Ideas Freely
ChatGPT
SHAIRI
OF THE DAYMEME’S THE WORD
Payments Systems... More Inclusive
Share of payment instruments 
in total payments by… (H1 2025)
Note: Total Payments include digital 
payments (retail digital payments + RTGS) and paper-based instruments If you’re not AI-ing your 
business, beware,
You’ll vanish like malls 
with no airconditioned air!
While bots make the 
money and schemes,
You’ll be le/f_t   selling 
‘human-made dreams’
While shouting, ‘But it’s 
just not fair!’...Volume ...ValueIndia’s payments ecosystem 
has seen remarkable growth in recent years. According to RBI’s latest Payment Systems Report, payment transaction volumes between CY2019 and CY2024 grew more than six-fold (from 3,248 crore in 2019 to 20,849 crore last year) while their value rose 1.6 times (` 1,775 lakh 
crore to ` 2,830 lakh crore). 
Almost all of the growth was due to digital payments, which accounted for 99.7% share by volume and 97.5% by value last year. Breakup by instruments shows UPI accounted for the largest volume share (85%) while RTGS had the most share by value (69%)...
Source: RBI
SANJEEV RAJ JAIN
UPI
NEFT
PPIs
NACH
Cards payment
IMPS
Cheque
RTGS9.1%
15.1%
0.1%
1.6%
0.8%
2.4%
2.3%
68.7%84.8%
3.9%
3.2%
2.9%
2.7%
2.1%
0.2%
0.1%Saudi Arabia’s reform of  its sponsorship programme for
overseas workers is seen as a precursor to the kingdom
opening up to foreign investment as it diversifies its eco-
nomy away from oil. But alterations to the kafala system
are partial, with sponsorship still mandated to secure
entry , although exit and job changes have been freed for a
wide category of  expatriate labour . The segment most
vulnerable to exploitation, domestic help, is not covered
by the new rules. Saudi Arabia thus swells the ranks of
members of  Gulf  Coordination Council (GCC) that are
reforming their regimes for foreign workers under pres-
sure by economic forces to seek a future beyond natural
resources. The measures remain considerably below in-
ternationally accepted norms on labour mobility .
Yet labour reforms are vital for Saudi Arabia. Over
40% of  workers are foreigners, the majority of  them
from South Asia, including India. The
country has accelerated its infrast-
ructure build-up and is dependent on
labour-intensive construction during
the transition. As a key supplier of
migrant workers and a big buyer of
oil, India should leverage itself  to play
abigger role in Saudi Arabia’s trans-
formation. India is also building railways, airports and
ports. The experience will come in handy for similar bu-
siness in the Persian Gulf.
Relaxations to the kafala system are part of  Saudi Ara-
bia’s Vision 2030, which coincides with commitments by
some of  the world’s largest economies to transition to
RE. Oil-producing nations will also need to develop their
transition strategies. Here, too, India could play a const-
ructive role in the Gulf. So long as India remains among
the fastest-growing major economies, it will improve its
capacity to engage with countries like Saudi Arabia in
emerging sectors. Negotiations are on for an FTA with
GCC, and India has been fairly spiffy in signing bilateral
agreements with some of  its members. Saudi Arabia wo-
uld be the biggest catch in this haul.Saudi Labour Reform
Can Unlock New Doors
India can gain jobs, business from changes
Quality control orders (QCOs) form
an important dimension of  India’s
industrial policy . It demands urgent
scrutiny . The challenge lies in whet-
her the design, sequencing and timing
of  QCOs advance industrial competi-
tiveness, or inadvertently impede it.
QCOs are statutory instruments
issued under Bureau of  Indian Stan-
dards (BIS) Act, 2016. They constitute
non-tariff  measures mandating that
designated products conform to
Indian standards and obtain BIS
certification before manufacture,
import, storage, or sale. BIS thus
operates as the standard-setter , notify-
ing authority and certifying agency ,
all at once.
Since 2014, the number of  products
under QCOs has risen from to 106 to
672, a nearly sixfold increase. They
now cover sectors ranging from me-
tals and machinery to textiles, chemi-
cals and electronics. Stated objectives
are sound: safeguarding consumers,
curbing substandard imports and
catalysing domestic value addition.
Yet, timing is critical. In industries
where domestic capacity is still em-
bryonic, premature enforcement can
disrupt supply chains, raise costs and
stall industrial momentum.
Aparticular concern arises from
QCOs applied to intermediary goods.
Arecent Centre for Social and Econo-
mic Progress study , Decoding India’s
Quality Control Orders, found 48% of
QCOs target intermediates. Imports
fall by 13% in the year after a QCO and
by 24% over the long term. Exports
rise 10% but decline 13% in the second
year , with no sustained gains. Poorly
calibrated QCOs may thus constrain,
rather than catalyse, competitiveness.
Consider QCO on polycarbonates,
effective from September , is signifi-
cant. Polycarbonates are indispen-sable in automotive, electronics,
medical devices and construction.
India’s demand exceeds 270 kt an-
nually while domestic capacity falls
short, necessitating imports. Impo-
sing QCOs without ensuring adequate
supply risks escalating costs and
delaying output in high-growth indu-
stries.
Global trade shows a paradox: count-
ries must import to export. China’s
electronics story is telling—in the
early 2000s, only 30-40% of  export
value was domestic; the rest relied on
imported components. Today , China
imports semiconductors worth nearly
$385 bn—more than its oil bill.
The lesson for India is clear . Modern
manufacturing hinges on imported
inputs semiconductors for electro-
nics, polycarbonates for automotive,
or speciality alloys for aerospace.
Restricting such intermediates thro-
ugh rigid QCOs risks blunting India’s
climb up the export value chain.
India stands at an inflection point,
aiming to be a central node in global
value chains. Achieving this requires
supply chains that are integrated yet
resilient. Overly strict or rushed
QCOs risk friction where agility is
key . Thailand and Indonesia have
already flagged BIS certification
delays at the WTO—unresolved, such
issues could make India seem an
unpredictable partner just as it seeks
reliability .
Further , distributional impact of
QCOs is uneven. Large corporations,
with compliance teams and financial
buffers, can navigate certification
regimes. MSMEs, in contrast, often
face existential risks. Certification
entails costs, delays and complex
logistics, compounded by the scarcityEase Up, Quality Cops
Control or catalyst?Letters to the editor may be addressed to
editet@timesofindia.com
Allahabad High Court
Has T elepathic Power!
In a landmark ruling that finally gives clairvoyants a shot at
law school, the Allahabad High Court has declared that even
‘unsaid words’ can promote enmity . Yup, judiciary has offici-
ally entered the realm of  telepathy . Rejecting a plea to reject
an FIR filed for obscenity in public, provoking breach of  pea-
ce and criminal intimidation via a WhatsApp message, the
bench, in their finite wisdom, managed to read a mind. This
is a stunning breakthrough in cognitive research.
Evidence, intent and context can now be seen as digres-
sions. Vibes alone can now prosecute. No longer do courts
have to be shackled by the tyranny of  actual speech. Why
wait for someone to say something inflammatory when ‘un-
said words’ and a ‘subtle message’ are already spotted by
folks who can sniff  out these sort of  things? That emoji of
an eggplant with a clenched fist? Seditious. The ‘hmm’ ty-
ped but deleted? Treasonous. The group chat you left witho-
ut explanation? A digital hate crime. This ruling raises mi-
nor concerns—like tossing out of  free expression, weaponi-
sation of  ambiguity and that nuance is no longer a protecti-
ve sheath. But in the age of  digital justice, it’s not what you
say , but also what you don’t say , might say , or almost said that
could get you in hot water . But hang on, by saying ‘hot wa-
ter’, is this column insinuating the passage of  ‘hot air’?Be careful of words you don’t say,
might say, or almost said
JUST IN JESTAK JAGANNATHAN
Schrödinger’s famous tho-
ught experiment envisions a
cat sealed in a box with a
radioactive atom that may or
may not cause its death. Until
the box is opened and obser-
ved, the cat exists in a super-
position—alive and dead. This
paradox illustrates how
multiple realities coexist until
observation collapses them
into a single reality . The Gita
presents a similar paradox:
jivatma appears to be both
bound, caught in the karmic
cycle of  birth and death, and
free, when spiritual wisdom
and its practice liberate it.
The Gita teaches that the
Atman is pure, eternal and
beyond the three gunas of
nature. As an energy of  God,
maya is engaged in His servi-
ce. Its function is to veil the
true nature of  the Supreme
from souls who have not yet
attained eligibility for God-
realisation. Maya attracts
souls with the three modes of
material nature: Sattva,
purity , rajas, passion and
tamas, inertia. The soul,
mistakenly identifying itself
with the body , craves material
pleasures. This material
attachment binds the soul to
karm—birth, death and
rebirth.
Like Schrödinger’s cat, the
soul lies in a box of  karm,
either bound or free. The
seeker undertakes an inward
spiritual journey of  soul
purification. Through medita-
tion, surrender and alignment
with Him, the soul attains
moksh.
The cat’s fate remains unk-
nown until the box is opened;
likewise, the soul’s freedom
remains hidden until veil of
maya is pierced by awareness.
Ultimately , both frameworks
affirm that reality is not fixed.Reality is
Not FixedThe Edit Page
THE  ECO N OMIC  TIME S 6}
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM
Afew years ago, Cadbury
used AI to create hyper-
personalised ads with
Shah Rukh Khan as brand
ambassador for local busi-
nesses. Using Rephrase.ai, Cadbury
recreated his face and voice to pro-
mote individual local stores, gener-
ating thousands of  unique ads that
shopkeepers could share with cus-
tomers. Imagine their delight in tell-
ing friends and family that SRK was
promoting their store.
If  GoI’s proposal to regulate syn-
thetically generated content is im-
plemented, 10% of  videos would have
to be covered with a disclaimer . Be-
cause there’s AI-generated audio as
well, 7.5 seconds of  the 75-second ad
may also require an audio disclaim-
er . The SRK ad worked because it was
believable, and that’s exactly what
the regulation would undo. Imagine
adisclaimer in the middle of  a movie
scene that uses VFX: the experience
won’t be immersive anymore.
In AI, there’s a concept called un-
canny valley: as something artifi-
cially generated becomes more hu-
man-like, initially , users’ responses
are positive. But as it becomes almost
human, the response turns to a
strong revulsion. However , as it be-
comes indistinguishable from a hu-
man being, people become more pos-
itive and empathetic.
As you can imagine, determining
when the uncanny valley hasbeen crossed is a tricky task: how re-
al is real? MeitY appears to be taking
on a related endeavour , trying to de-
fine the regulation of  synthetically
generated media when it ‘reasona-
bly appears to be authentic or true’.
What does ‘reasonably’ mean here,
and how will it be legally deter-
mined?
The concerns that MeitY is trying
to address with this regulation are
real: AI can be used to create fake ads
to dupe people, potentially swing
elections, generate pornography
based on real people, and much more.
The tech is improving rapidly: deep-
fakes can be generated faster and
cheaper , and appear more authentic
than they did a year ago.
We use AI online all the time and
often don’t realise it. There’s AI
when we use Instagram filters,
there’s AR or VR, or when photo-
graphs are brushed up by magically
changing the background or remov-
ing a person or an object from a pho-
to. The outputs appear authentic
but aren’t. If  one uses AI to clean up
her display picture on LinkedIn,
would she have to cover 10%
of  it with a disclaimer?
Sometimes we use AI
for fun: to
joke, creating
memes or in-
serting
friends into
memes.
Where’s theharm in this? Man-
dating disclaimers
kills the joke. Auto-
tuning is a frequent-
ly used synthetic
manipulation of  music
to address variance in
tone for singers while also
ensuring that the track
appears authentic.
Would almost every
song on Spotify have to
allocate 10% of  its
length to a disclaimer?
Could the 2024 AI-
generated song about
migrants, ‘Verknallt in
einen Talahon,’ (In
love with a bling guy)
have hit Germany’s top 100 charts
last year if  only a small part of  it
noted it was AI-made? What point is
there in Bruce Willis signing off  his
AI rights for future films if  every ap-
pearance would need to carry a dis-
claimer?
What scientific method was used
by MeitY to arrive at this 10% fig-
ure? If  one peppers 10% of  an image
with a disclaimer on random parts
so that it makes no sense, will one be
compliant?
The other key problem with this
regulation is that it attempts to regu-
late generation of  AI as an interme-
diary function. An intermediary , as
per India’s IT Act, is any person who,
on behalf  of  another person, re-
ceives, stores, or transmits e-records.AI tools like ChatGPT and Gemini
are used to generate and create infor-
mation, not transmit it from one per-
son to another . They cannot legally
be treated as intermediaries. Social
media platforms are intermediaries
and could be required to take down
AI-generated parody or AI-generat-
ed content without disclosures, ef-
fectively restricting free speech.
Synthetically generated images
are also required to have unique
identifiers under the regulation.
Does GoI have any idea how many
millions of  synthetically gener-
ated images are creat-
ed every second? How
will they enforce this
regulation globally?
In December 2023,
after MeitY held meet-
ings with social media
platforms regarding deep-
fakes, it was determined
that IT Rules are sufficient to
regulate deepfakes. Clause
3(1)(b)(v) mandates that
platforms inform users not
to publish deceptive infor-
mation that is patently false
but ‘may reasonably be per-
ceived as a fact’. They’re re-
quired to take down infor-
mation once flagged. Why
the ministry has decided to
switch from removing
harmful info to enforcing tagging all
info that has been created or edited
with AI, even if  harmless, is beyond
understanding.
The problem is that regulators
that govern the internet, whether it
is MeitY with this regulation, DoT
with its mobile number validation
regulation, or I&B ministry with
broadcast bill, are so out of  touch
with how tech is used that they’re in-
creasingly becoming disablers rath-
er than enablers of  innovation, com-
merce, and encouraging Indian star-
tups to seek more supportive mar-
kets. We need them to be more
thoughtful about the impact of  their
regulations.
The writer is founder , MediaNama
India’s proposed AI content regulation aims to curb misuse, but risks overreach
Do we need to pipe up all the time?Nikhil Pahwa
AReset in
The Offing?
Apropos ‘Trump may Clinch
Deal with China’s Xi During
Asia Trip’ (Oct 26). Trump
aims to clinch a deal that
tackles trade imbalances and
the North Korean threat in
one fell swoop. Yet, behind the
handshakes and photo-ops
lies a complex calculus: both
leaders must weigh national
pride against global pressure.
If  Trump and Xi can find
common ground, it may mark
aturning point in US-China
relations; if  not, the summit
risks becoming a case of  too
much talk and not enough
traction in the arena of  inter-
national diplomacy . This is
where the rubber meets the
road.
Avinashiappan Myilsami,
Coimbatore
There’s More to
Air Pollution
Apropos ‘Cleanliness is In-
deed Next to Godliness’ (Oct
25). While firecrackers during
festivities are blamed for the
bad air quali-
ty in Delhi-
NCR, the real,
persistent
drivers of
pollution are
vehicular and
industrial
emission, and
garbage heaps. The onus for
clean breathable air lies main-
ly with the government, but
citizens, too, must shoulder
the blame for the poor AQI.
Mukund Kumar , Mumbai
Securing
Rare Earth
Apropos ‘EU Chief  Works Out
All Options over China Rare
Earth Threat’ (Oct 26). China’s
curbs on rare earth elements
have made securing critical
mineral supply chains more
urgent than ever . India must
strengthen and safeguard
domestic supply of  rare earth
elements by building recycling
capacity for extraction and
production. The government
must deploy all policy levers
that move industry away from
landfilling waste, towards
recovery and recycling. This
will not only yield rare earth
security we need but help earn
revenue and build critical
partnerships with other
countries that seek to secure
critical minerals supply .
Pradeep Kumar , Surat
Chat Room
Amitabh Kant &
Diewakarr Mittal
‘Kourasmeno Palikari’,
literally ‘Weary Young Man’
in Greek, also known as
‘Now That You Don’t Love
Me’, is a hauntingly be-
autiful ballad that show-
cases Nana Mouskouri at
her transcendental best.
Composed by legendary
Greek composer Manos
Hadjidakis, this 1962 song is
amasterclass in restrained
sorrow , where every note
feels like a sigh and every
pause a quiet heartbreak.
From the first melancholic
strains riding on the strings
of  the bouzouki, Mouskou-
ri’s voice glides in like high
tide over ruins. Her signatu-
re clari-
ty—crys-
talline,
war-
m—im-
bues the
lyrics
with a
sense of
dignified despair: ‘Kouras-
meno palikari/ tora pou de
m' agapas/ pare to khryso
phengari/ ston paradiso na
pas’ (Weary lad/ Now that
you don’t love me/ Take the
golden moon/ Go off  to
paradise’).
There’s no vocal acroba-
tics. Just pure, ouzo-distilled
sadness, delivered with the
grace. The arrangement is
sparse, almost ascetic,
allowing the vocals to sear
through. The ‘lounge music’
orchestration of  strings and
gentle high-hat stirrings on
the drums, the melody
lingers long after the song
ends, quite like a goodbye
that was never fully spoken.
Mouskouri’s is the articula-
tion of  a world dimming,
dimming, dimmed.Kourasmeno
Palikari
Nana Mouskouri
MELODY  FOR 
MONDAY
of  accredited laboratories.
The unintended result is market
concentration: well-capitalised firms
consolidate while smaller ones struggle.
Given MSMEs contribute nearly 30% to
GDP and over 45% to exports, such
distortions carry systemic implications.
The imperative is not to abandon
standards but to calibrate them. India
must move from a blanket approach to
astrategic framework that evaluates
readiness before imposing QCOs.
Four guiding criteria could structure
this process:
uDomestic capacity Is local pro-
duction sufficient to replace imports?
Or will QCOs create scarcity?
uTech readiness Can Indian firms
meet benchmarks without dispro-
portionate reliance on foreign kno-
whow?
uCapital adequacy Do MSMEs
have the resilience to absorb compli-
ance costs?
uSupply chain elasticity Will
QCOs disrupt downstream industries
reliant on these inputs?
Reform need not dilute quality
enforcement. High standards are
indispensable for competitiveness.
But regulation must enable, not stifle,
industry .
Arecalibrated QCO regime could
rest on three pillars:
uMutual recognition of  stan-
dards Accepting credible inter-
national certifications aligned with
BIS norms to ease compliance while
reinforcing India’s global standing.
uDecentralised certification
Accrediting third-party bodies to
alleviate bottlenecks and accelerate
approvals.
uPredictable implementation
Clear timelines, phased enforcement
in sensitive sectors and uniform
treatment across firms to anchor
stability .
Just as rationalisation of  GST is a
vital reform, reimagining the QCO
framework offers the next critical
frontier . A calibrated, predictable and
internationally harmonised approach
can transform QCOs from hurdles into
catalysts.
Kant was G20 sherpa, GoI. Mittal is director ,
Fairfax Centre for Free EnterpriseGoI mandates
unique IDs for
synthetic
content—but can
it track millions
of images created
every second, or
enforce this
globally?Claimers Over Disclaimers
TECHNIK
Using AI for fun—jokes,
memes, or putting friends
in memes—is mostly
harmless. Mandatory
disclaimers kill the funCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETCEDIT User: k.eswar Time: 10-26-2025 22:37 Color:CMYK
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETCOPED User: k.eswar Time: 10-26-2025 21:59 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.week of  listing. The report found that
higher subscription levels and bigger lis-ting gains encouraged faster exits.
“IPO flipping or selling shares soon af-
ter listing to capture quick gains, has al-ways attracted a section of  retail inves-tors, especially during bullish phases,”says Abhishek Mishra, founding part-ner , SKG Investment & Advisory .
While such trading offers short-term pro-
fits, experts warn that the trend is drivenmore by momentum than analysis. Manynew issues are Offer for Sale (OFS) heavy ,meaning the proceeds largely go to exis-ting shareholders rather than the compa-ny . This limits the scope for future growth.
“The issue isn’t quality , it’s pricing. Pro-
moters sell when sentiment and valua-tions are peaking, leaving very little onthe table for investors,” says Vikas Gup-ta, CEO and chief  investment strategist
at OmniScience Capital.
The rush of  new issues has also created
competition for investor capital. With
more than 120 listings in a year , liquiditygets stretched, and price discovery afterlisting remains weak. As a result, short-term investors often rotate between issu-es, booking small gains and missing po-tential long-term wealth creation.
Our latest cover story examines how in-
vestors can decide when to stay investedand when to move on.
Hot listings, wild valuations, and short-lived gains —
here’s how to know when to cash in or hold tight
Don’t Get Burnt by the Blaze
Yasmin Hussain & Sanket Dhanorkar
India’s primary market is witnessing
another surge in activity . So far this year ,90 companies have been listed on the ma-inboard, together raising over ` ` 1.2 tril-
lion. The number could soon exceed lastyear’s tally as several more firms queueup to tap buoyant investor sentiment.
However, r eturns from new listings ha-
ve been mixed. LG Electronics India ma-de a strong debut earlier this month witha 50% listing premium, but Tata Capital’s` `15,500-crore IPO — launched a day earli-
er—has barely moved since. Over thepast year , around 47 IPOs have fallen be-low their issue price, underscoring howinconsistent post-listing performancehas become.
The enthusiasm brings back memories
of  the 2007 IPO wave, when companiessuch as Reliance Power, DLF , and Unitech
delivered eye-catching debuts before lo-sing steam in the months that followed.The same pattern appears to be repea-ting, though the reasons have evolved.
According to a Sebi study on investor
behaviour , between April 2021 and De-
cember 2023, retail investors sold 42.7%
of  their allotted shares by value within a
For More Pick Up Today’s
parameters and convert every loss-ma-
king branch into a profit-making outlet.Banks in India do not disclose the numberof  lossmaking branches.
The Japanese financial conglomerate pa-
id ` `13,483 crore to acquire a 20% stake
from State Bank of  India and other private
banks.
SMBC, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group(SMFG), also received theRBI’s approval to acquireanother 4.99% stake in thebank. It will have the rightto appoint two nominee di-rectors on the board of  aprivate bank, which was fo-unded by Rana Kapoor ,ousted in 2019 in the after-math of  alleged loan fraud
cases.
While most private banks are witnessing
high employee attrition, for Yes Bank it re-duced to 35.5% in FY25 from 38.2% in pre-vious year .
Yes Bank’s return on assets is 0.70% lo-
wer than the industry average of  1.1-1.2%.
The net interest margin–or , the differencebetween interest earned on loans and in-vestments, and interest paid on liabilitiesis 2.5%, or much lower than peers.
Sangita Mehta
Mumbai: Toru Nakashima, the global
CEO at Japanese financial major Sumito-
mo Mitsui Banking Corp (SMBC) that ac-quired 20% of  Yes Bank, told employees ofthe Indian lender at a town hall meetingthat SMBC would take the bank to next le-vel of  growth and reassured employees onjob security , people aware of  the town halldiscussions told ET. 
Nakashima conveyed this message to the
top management of  Yes Bank at the mee-ting held on October 17 at the Mumbai he-adquarters of  the lender . After the townhall meeting, Nakashima and the top ma-nagement of  Yes Bank met senior ReserveBank of  India (RBI) officials.
This was the first address by SMBC’s glo-
bal boss to Yes Bank employees, who hadconcerns over job losses should the inco-ming management be focused on cuttingcosts. Nakashima also added that SMBCaims to bring in its global learning and ex-pertise to the Indian bank.
The SMBC chief ’s assurance to Yes Bank
employees on jobs and growth prospectu-es comes within weeks of  the comments byanother senior SMBC executive who told aglobal wire service that the Japanese len-der had no intent to raise its stake beyondthe 24.99% approved by the RBI.
In a recent interaction with Reuters, SMBC
group executive officer Rajeev Kannan and
head of  SMBC group’s India division said theJapanese lender is focused on contributing toYes Bank's growth as its largest shareholderand board member and does not intend to ta-ke on an executive role in the lender .
People privy to the development also said
SMBC is working on a plan to set up a whol-
ly owned subsidiary and raise stake in thebank, ET reported on June 2. SMBC has al-so appointed ex-G20 Sherpa Amitabh Kantas its advisor .
It is also aiming to improve the businessTORU NAKASHIMA REASSURES YES STAFF ON GROWTH, JOB SECURITY
Nakashima and Yes Bank top
management also engagedwith senior RBI officialsafter the townhall meetingSMBC to Share its Global
Learning with Y es Bank,Help Raise the Bar: CEO
upgrades, several Adani firms are AAA or
AA+ ratings, opening the door for them totap the rupee bond market at competitive ra-tes. Long-term papers have been particularlysought after by insurers and pension funds, gi-ven their liability profiles. India’s insuranceindustry , with assets under management(AUM) of  about ` `64 lakh crore, and mutual
funds that manage ` `74 lakh crore have been
scouting for high-rated long-term instrumentsoffering attractive yields. 
AEL raised 
`1,000 cr in 
July this year through another public NCDFund Flows
RUPEE BOND ISSUANCES BY ADANI
Adani Enterprises Ltd  (AEL) raised `800 cr via its ﬁ  rst 
public NCD issue in September 2024
Adani Airports Holdings Ltd (AAHL) raised ` 1,950 crore through NCDs 
subscribed by mutual funds and banks
Adani Road Transport SPVraised `1,124 crore through 
NCDs in two trancheswith up to 11-year maturityShilpy Sinha
Mumbai: Mutual funds, insurers, and banks
have been stepping up investments in long-
term corporate bonds issued by the Adani Gro-up, which has raised around ` `13,750 crore over
the past year across five of  its companies, mar-ket data showed. 
The group's bond sales make up more than a
tenth of  all corporate bonds issued in Indiaover the past one year . In the 12 months to Octo-ber 2025, the group has tapped the domesticbond market 10 times, with five issuances car-rying maturities of  10 years or more––inclu-ding 15-, 17, and 19-year papers. 
These long-duration bonds, issued mainly by
Adani Ports, Adani Transmission, and AdaniRoads, have seen interests from large domesticinstitutions such as LIC, ICICI PrudentialAMC, Nippon AMC, SBI MF , HDFC Bank, AxisBank, and Aseem Infra. This month, AdaniTransmission step-down subsidiary ATSTLissued ` `995 crore of  17-year bonds, which saw
demand from funds including Nippon MF ,IIFCL. Over the past five months alone, Adanientities have floated five long-term bonds, oneeach with maturities of  19, 17, and 15 year , andtwo with 10-year tenors.
Previously , the group was raising funds off-
shore through 144A/Reg S markets to raiselong-duration capital in US dollars. 
However, after a string of  domestic ratingAdani Long-Term Bonds Continue
to Draw Interest from InstitutionsFrom a small
Colaba shoeshop to a` `650-crore
quarterly
business,
Metro Brands has grown into
India’s leading premium footwearcompany, outpacing rivals likeBata and Relaxo. Despite steadyrevenue growth and strongmargins, its Q2 FY26 profitsdipped amid weak demand andhigh valuations of 89x earnings.With expanding brand tie-upsincluding Crocs, FILA, and FootLocker, Metro is betting on India’svast unorganised market. Butsustaining momentum whilemanaging costs will be its biggesttest. Varsha Santosh reports.Shoe bite
This month has
been a recordof sorts forIndia’s IPOmarket, withblockbuster
listings like LG Electronics draw-
ing massive investor demand.
Promoters are happy. Private
equity investors are makingmanifold returns. But one missinglink for the economy has been thelack of investments by companiesin raising their capacity. Also, anincreasing number of IPOs havewitnessed tepid listings in 2025,with only 15% of the companiesdelivering more than 25% returncompared to 41% in 2024. A deep
dive by MC Govardhana Rangan.IPO puzzle
TECHNICAL VIEWS 
Bulls Enjoying Octoberfest Need 
to Be on Guard; Dips are Still Buys
Nifty is expected to pause in its rally towards the record high levels of 26,216 that it made in 
September last year, after moving 1,500 points higher so far in October. The index is likely to witness pressure near the 26,000 levels. But dips are buying opportunities, especially in the banking and metals sectors. On the downside, 25,400–25,500 is expected to act as a key support level.
Where is Nifty headed 
this week?
After nearly a year of consoli-dation, Nifty is showing signs of a potential breakout from a Cup and Handle pattern, indicating renewed bullish momentum. The monthly structure remains construc-tive, though the daily chart reﬂects some indecision and proﬁt-booking near the 26,100 levels, with the RSI hovering in the overbought zone. 
This week, Nifty may 
retrace towards 25,450 levels. However, as long as the index sustains above 25,450, the medium-term outlook remains “buy on dips.”
Strategies for the week:
For investors, any short-term correction should be viewed as a buying opportunity, particularly in quality names with a medium- to long-term perspective. 
Sectors such as 
banking, metals, auto, and energy remain well-posi-tioned to beneﬁt from the ongoing economic and market momentum
.
Among the large caps, State 
Bank of India, ONGC, Tata Motors, and Tata Steel look good. In the mid-cap space, PI Industries, Indus Tower, and LIC Housing Finance stand out, while South Indian Bank and EIH offer small-cap potential.TANMAY SHAH
RESEARCH HEAD, SIHL
Where is Nifty headed?
Proﬁt-booking near record highs has paused the recent momentum, forming a Shoot-ing Star pattern on the weekly chart — hinting at possible exhaustion. The RSI has eased from 72.6 to 67.1, adding to the cautious tone.
Markets now await cues 
from the upcoming India–US trade deal, which could set the next direction. Technical-ly, 25,550–25,500 serves as a key support zone (13-day EMA and 38.2% retrace-ment), while 25,950–26,000 is immediate resistance. 
A 
sustained breakout above 26,000 could propel Nifty to-ward 26,300, whereas a slip below 25,500 may trigger deeper proﬁt-booking
.
Strategies for the week:
Momentum remains strong in select pockets. Nifty Metal, IT, CPSE, Realty, and Oil & Gas indices continue to display solid bullish setups backed by 
favourable chart patterns and sustained relative strength, hinting at further outper-formance ahead. These sectors have held ﬁrm even during market consolidations, reﬂect-ing underlying buying interest.
In contrast, Nifty Media remains weak.
Among stocks, Cummins 
India, Blue Star, Hindalco, and Cholamandalam Investment exhibit promising technical structures and look well-posi-tioned for continued strength.SUDEEP SHAH
VP AND HEAD OF TECHNICAL 
AND DERIVATIVES RESEARCH, SBI SECURITIESWhere is Nifty headed?
Nifty’s weekly price action 
formed a Doji-like candle with a higher high–low, indicating proﬁt-booking at the psycho-logical mark of 26,000. The formation of higher peaks and troughs signiﬁes buying de-mand at an elevated support base, which makes us reiterate our positive bias and expect Nifty to challenge the all-time high of 26,300 in the coming month. The breakout from three months of consolidation helped Bank Nifty clock a fresh all-time high, highlight-ing structural improvement. Optimism around earnings also boosted sentiment in the IT, and oil & gas. Togeth-er, these indices carry 55% weightage in Nifty, which should provide the impetus to challenge the all-time high.
Strategies for the week:
With recent proﬁt-booking, the 
index is undergoing a healthy retracement of the 1,500-point up-move observed over the past four weeks
. Therefore, 
any decline should not be construed as negative; instead, dips should be capitalised on to accumulate quality stocks with strong earnings, as key support is placed at 25,400.Sectorally, we expect BFSI, 
auto, metal, and consumption to outperform, while beat-en-down sectors like IT, capital goods & infra, and PSU offer bargain-buy opportunities.On the stock front, Axis Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries, Nestle, Larsen & Toubro, Titan, Bharat Electronics, and Tata Steel look good for 5% upside. In midcaps, Persistent Systems, Kansai Nerolac, Gujarat Pipa-vav Port, and Indo Count look good for 8% prospective gains.DHARMESH SHAH
VICE PRESIDENT AND HEAD OF 
TECHNICAL, ICICI SECURITIES
Nifty Bank
60000
56000520004800044000
Oct 28, 2024 Oct 24, 2025
57700
51259Nifty Metal
1100010000
900080007000
Oct 28, 2024 Oct 24, 202510347
9278
Muthoot Microfin
Plans ` `375-crore
Bond Issue 
Atmadip Ray
Kolkata: Muthoot Microfin
plans to mobilise ` `375 crore by
selling bonds to high net worthindividuals (HNIs) soon, follo-wing up the fundraise of  $15 mil-lion or about ` ` 132 crore from
Swiss impact investor Blue Or-chard concluded earlier in themonth. 
The locally sold non-convertib-
le debentures would be privat-ely placed with HNIs, peopleaware of  the matter said.
The microfinance
company is seeking toraise more funds asstability appears to be
returning to the sector . The NCDis likely to carry a coupon of9.5%, said the people cited above.
Selling bonds to HNIs is part of
the company's resource diversi-fication strategy . The plan willbe placed to the company's bo-ard at a meeting on October 29.Chief  executive Sadaf  Sayeeddeclined to comment as the com-pany is in a silent period beforethe quarterly results scheduledon November 5.
The lender may look to raise
another $35 million later this fi-scal through the external com-mercial borrowing route.
The Kerala-headquartered
NBFC-MFI, which is a part ofMuthoot Pappachan group, hadraised $15 million in externalcommercial borrowing earlierin the month by selling longterm dollar-denominated bondsat 9.85% a year . 
IPO FEVER
HopeGreed
PanicFearHopeBeatin g Volatility
ECONOMY: MACRO, 
MICRO & MORE
Skill Financing
Planned withFocus onEmergingSectors
WWW.ETMARKETS.COM
BENGALURU, MONDAY, 27 OCTOBER 2025
The J apanese
financial
conglo merate
paid .`13,483cr
to acquire a
20% stake
from State
bank of India
and other
private banks
Two days this week are likely to dictate the direction of the US stock market for the remainder of the year. On Wednesday and
Thursday, five firms that account for about a quarter of the S&P 500 Index — Microsoft, Alphabet, Meta Platforms, Amazon Inc. a nd
Apple Inc. — will report their earnings. Beyond the glimpse into their businesses, ranging from cloud computing and e-commerce to
electronic devices and digital advertising, investors will be focused on their outlooks for AI development. — Bloomberg Wall St Make-or-Break Week Arrives With Big Tech EarningsCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETCINTB User: raghav.jindal Time: 10-27-2025 00:13 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.9THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COMCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGCFM User: k.eswar Time: 10-26-2025 21:59 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.is also seeing a surge in prices due
to market volatility , creating furt-
her cost pressure on brands.
“NAND Flash contract prices
across all categories are expected
to generally rise, with an average
increase of  5-10% in Q425,”
TrendForce said. The surge in
prices of  memory and storage,
two crucial elements in the bill of
materials of  a smartphone, will10}
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Brands: Creating Desire
te matter can increase blood pres-
sure, cause inflammation in blo-
od vessels, and even trigger cardi-
ac events like arrhythmias or
heart attacks,” said Vikash Goy-
al, senior cardiologist, Paras He-
alth, Gurugram. He said patients
often experience symptoms like
chest discomfort, fatigue, palpita-
tions, and shortness of  breath.
He suggested that patients sho-
uld avoid outdoor
exposure during
high pollution ho-
urs, manage
stress levels, take
prescribed medi-
cation regularly ,
and monitor heart
health closely .
To clean the air ,
Delhi government
is preparing for
artificial rain
through cloud see-
ding. According
to chief  minister Rekha Gupta,
the first artificial rain is likely to
occur on October 29.
Asuccessful trial flight was
conducted earlier over the Bura-
ri area. The city’s chief  minister
Gupta said: “If  conditions rema-
in favourable, Delhi will experi-
ence its first artificial rain on
October 29.”Smog First, Winter
Next: Capital Wary
of Poor Air Quality 
Implement existing laws 
on burning of waste and pollution checks for industries & vehiclesManaging public trans-
port & traf/f_i  c 
betterGasp for 
Breath
Air quality 
index at
318
on Sunday
Expected 
to get 
worse
KEY INITIATIVES NEEDED
Delhi and
adjoining
areas have
been waking
up to a dense
blanket of
smog, with
monitoring
systems
recording a
sharp decline
in air quality Teena Thacker
New Delhi: The air quality will
continue to remain in the poor ca-
tegory as the cold settles in, posing
severe health risks, experts say . De-
spite policy interventions and co-
urt directions the national capital
and the NCR region have been ree-
ling under a blanket of  thick smog
and it’s not going to get easy , ex-
perts say . “I can confidently predict
that as the cold settles in and air-
flow slows down, things will get
worse,” said Anurag Agrawal, de-
an, biosciences and health rese-
arch at the Ashoka University .
Delhi and adjoining areas have
been waking up to a dense blanket
of  smog, with monitoring sy-
stems recording a sharp decline
in the air quality . According to the
ministry of  earth sciences, air qu-
ality index was 318 on Sunday . It is
expected to deteriorate further .
“History repeats itself  unless
there is any fundamental change
or implementation of  learnings,”
Agrawal said. The key variable,
he said, is the flow of  air in the ge-
ographical region that removes a
constantly heavy production of
pollutants. “The only reasonable
and useful action that we can take
is to implement existing laws on
burning of  waste and pollution
checks for industries and vehi-
cles. Managing our public trans-
port and traffic better would also
help,” he further said.
Doctors say that the spike in air
pollution doesn’t just affect the
lungs—it can also place a serious
burden on the heart, especially
for individuals with existing he-
art conditions such as hyperten-
sion, heart failure, or coronary
artery disease.
“During and after Diwali, the ex-
posure to high levels of  particula-Experts flag health
risks for people in
Delhi and NCR
despite policy
interventions
ter , adding that many RERA aut-
horities do not exercise their po-
wers to penalise errant develo-
pers or ensure compliance with
orders. The association highligh-
ted four major shortcomings in
the current framework. The first
issue relates to the lack of  a comp-
letion mechanism of  promised
amenities such as clubhouses,
swimming pools or landscaped
gardens which are missing or de-
layed. The existing provisions un-
der Section 18, which only deal
with compensation for delay in
possession, are “grossly inadequ-
ate”, the FPCE said.
It urged the ministry to direct de-
velopers to deposit adequatefunds in escrow accounts for
completion of  such missing ame-
nities and also compensate buy-
ers until all facilities are comple-
ted and functional.
The second concern involves the
absence of  a verification mecha-
nism for promoters’ track records
before granting registration for
new projects. The FPCE has sug-
gested that promoters be required
to declare that all dues, penalties
and compensation amounts payab-
le to buyers, authorities or courts
across India have been cleared, in-
cluding by their group entities.
“This single measure will make
recovery from builders automatic
and prevent errant promotersfrom launching new projects whi-
le defaulting on old ones,” Upad-
hyay said.
He added that such a system wo-
uld also prevent the frequent dela-
ys in property registrations that
plague regions such as Noida and
Greater Noida, where project re-
gistrations are often stalled due to
unpaid dues of  builders.
The letter further sought a clear
exit policy for homebuyers to re-
move uncertainty following a re-
cent Supreme Court judgment
distinguishing between ‘genuine
homebuyers’ and ‘speculative in-
vestors’. The FPCE proposed that
buyers be entitled to a full refund
within a year of  booking and a
90% refund thereafter , to ensure
fairness and predictability .
The FPCE also recommended
barring developers from collec-
ting 100% of  the unit cost until the
entire project including all com-
mon areas and promised ameniti-
es is completed and a ‘completion
certificate’ is issued.
Calling the situation “a wake-up
call for the ministry”, the FPCE
said immediate, uniform and en-
forceable SOPs are essential to
restore homebuyer confidence,
ensure compliance and support
the real estate sector’s long-term
health.
Missing 
amenities: No system to en-sure promised facilities are completedDevelopers need to set aside funds for pending 
amenities, compen-sate buyers
Track record check: Veri-fy builders’ dues, penalties before new approvalsCheck Status
Payment 
cap: Stop full 
collection 
before project 
completionKailash Babar
Mumbai: Apan-India homebuy-
ers’ association has approached
the Union housing and urban affa-
irs ministry seeking urgent inter-
vention to plug critical gaps in the
Real Estate (Regulation and Deve-
lopment) Act, 2016 (RERA), raising
concerns that several provisions
of  the law continue to leave buyers
vulnerable to exploitation.
In a detailed letter addressed to
minister Manohar Lal Khattar ,
the Forum for People’s Collective
Efforts (FPCE) has called for issu-
ance of  standard operating proce-
dures (SOPs) to all state RERA
authorities until formal amend-
ments are made to the Act.
FPCE president Abhay Upadhy-
ay , who is also a member of  the
RERA Central Advisory Council,
said the regulatory framework
has “failed to instil trust” among
homebuyers, with several autho-
rities “acting as passive specta-
tors” despite being armed with
enforcement powers.
“The RERA registration num-
ber has failed to become a symbol
of  trust. It has instead become a
mere formality that builders
flaunt while continuing to flout
the law ,” Upadhyay said in the let-Homebuyers’ Body Flags Gaps in RERA,
Seeks Protection from ‘Errant’ Builders
Completing promised amenities, verifying promoters’ track records among concerns raisedto climb more than 10% QoQ in
4Q2,” TrendForce said in a re-
port. S imilarly , prices of  NAND
flash storage surged due to market
volatility , putting further cost
pressure on brands amidst inten-
sifying competition in the market.
“The main driver behind increa-
sing prices and shortage of  stan-
dard memory chips is the rising
demand for high-performance
computers for AI servers. Most of
the memory allocation is shifting
towards high-bandwidth memo-
ry which is crucial for AI HPCs,”
said Parv Sharma, analyst at Co-
unterpoint Research, adding that
for memory manufacturers, the
average costs and margins for
HBM is significantly higher com-
pared to supplying components
for smartphones.
Similarly , NAND flash storage,
another crucial component in the
bill of  materials in a smartphone,far beyond expectations and co-
uld intensify ,” he said on Weibo, a
Chinese social media platform.
Market trackers said in India,
the overall impact on the final
smartphone price depends on
how brands manage their bill of
materials.
“Brands will weigh their op-
tions and try to balance out the
higher memory costs withi n thetotal bill of  materials. They can
achieve this by choosing cheaper al-
ternatives for other components,
such as a different display , or a ca-
mera with a lower specification,”
Sharma said. They will only increa-
se prices of  products if  they are
unable to balance t he cost pressu-
res, he added.
With high-end smartphones in-
creasingly featuring on-device AI
processing as a differentiator , the
demand for memory and storage
is only expected to go up in devi-
ces. However , given that pricing
in the high-end segment already
has a higher profit margin for
brands, they have more room to
absorb the rise in component pri-
ces, analysts said. However , low-
end handsets which are sold on lo-
wer margins, will have less room
to absorb higher BOM costs, and
could see a surge in prices from
next year , Sharma said.Subhrojit Mallick
New Delhi: Entry-level and mid-
range smartphones are likely to
become costlier from the fourth
quarter as surging memory chip
prices have raised input costs, in-
dustry executives and market
trackers said. 
According to supply chain
tracking firm TrendForce, mobi-
le memory chip prices used in
mid and low-end smartphones
are seeing shrinking supply as
manufacturers slash output, di-
verting capacities toward equip-
ment that offer high-bandwidth
memory . Demand for the latter is
booming due to the growing AI
data center market.
“Brands have stepped up procu-
rement to avoid supply disrup-
tions, exacerbating the imbalan-
ce and pushing LPDDR4X pricesLow-end Phones May Pay Price of Chip Shortage
Even mid-range smartphones could get costlier in Q4 as supply of memory chips falls with manufacturers diverting capacity to support AI servers
lead to brands either compromi-
sing on the features or passing on
the additional costs to customers,
industry executives said.
After facing public backlash
over higher prices of  its new
smartphones, Xiaomi President
Lu Weibing clarified on social me-
dia that rising cost pressure is be-
ing transferred to its customers.
“Rising cost of  memory chips are
ON THE RISE
 WHY?
 IMPACT
Capacities 
diverted to catering to AI HPC* demand
Margins in HBM
^
higher than 
smartphone componentsDRAM memory,up 10% QoQ in Q4, 2025
NAND Flash
storage, up 10%
QoQ in Q4 ,2025
Source: TrendforceSound 
of 
NoisePrice hike for entry-level & mid-range phones from ’26
OEMs may 
switch to cheaper alter-natives to keep costs stable
Brands have 
stepped up procurement to avoid supply disruptions*High perform-
ing computers
^high-band-
width memory
nal Realty . “We believe that the cre-
ation of  an A+ category and a ratio-
nalised rate structure across
categories A–H will modernise Del-
hi’s valuation framework and align
it with current market realities, en-
suring fairness, transparency and
enhanced revenue efficiency .” In
most of  Delhi’s high-end colonies,
the circle rate is much lower than
the market rate, due to which buy-
ers pay part of  the amount in cash,
while on paper , the value of  the pro-
perty remains low , attracting lower
stamp duty .
However , in some colonies, the
circle rate is higher than the mar-
ket rate, which discourages
transactions. “The Delhi govern-
ment’s decision to review circle
rates is a timely move, given that
the last revision took place over a
decade ago, in 2014. The revision
is expected to bring greater align-
ment between notified and preva-
iling market values, thereby en-
hancing transparency and boos-
ting confidence among homebuy-
ers, investors and developers
alike,” said Anshuman Magazi-
ne, chairman and CEO, India, So-
uth-East Asia, Middle East &
Africa, CBRE.
Given high land values and limi-
ted transactions in Delhi’s mostDelhi to Review ‘Circle Rate’ Suggestions
Faizan Haidar
New Delhi: The Delhi govern-
ment has received a slew of  sug-
gestions on revising circle rates
in the capital, including the crea-
tion of  a new category A+ for pre-
mium areas of  Lutyens’ Delhi, an
overhaul of  rates for farmhouses,
biennial reviews, greater data
transparency and the formation
of  a stakeholder committee.
The government had sought
public feedback on the proposed
revision and is reviewing the sub-
missions before finalising the
new rates, officials said.
Circle rates, or the minimum ra-
tes for the valuation of  land and
immovable properties in residen-
tial, commercial and industrial
areas, are mostly lower than mar-
ket rates, promoting cash trans-
actions and leading to revenue
loss for the government.
“The suggested measures will im-
prove transparency and accuracy
in property valuation and registra-
tion. They will also increase stamp
duty collection and registration re-
venue, which will lead to greater
compliance and investor confiden-
ce,” said Amit Goyal, managing di-
rector , India Sotheby’s Internatio-prestigious enclaves, experts ha-
ve recommended that a new cate-
gory A+ be introduced for areas
such as Amrita Shergil Marg,
Prithviraj Road, Dr APJ Abdul
Kalam Road, Tughlaq Road, Golf
Links and Jor Bagh.
These locations command bench-
mark prices far above other catego-
ry A areas, often exceeding ` `12-` `15
lakh per square metre in open-mar-ket transactions. Accordingly , a re-
alistic circle rate for this new cate-
gory should be set at ` `10 lakh per
square metre, it has been sugges-
ted. A government official said that
the revenue department is actively
considering these suggestions, as
they could help improve the real es-
tate market in the capital.
Experts have also called for an
overhaul of  the circle rates for
farmhouses. 
Farmhouses are increasingly
classified as part of  urbanised
Delhi, but circle rates continue to
be applied at agricultural values,
with prices ranging from ` `54 lakh
to as high as ` `30 crore per acre,
creating a huge mismatch.
“Farmhouse circle rates should
be benchmarked to and differenti-
ated by geographical zones. This
will align valuations with reality ,
enhance transparency and plug
significant revenue leakages to
the exchequer ,” said Goyal.
Legal experts have also high-
lighted certain basic and funda-
mental gaps in the present con-
cept of  circle rates.
“The notification relating to the
Prevention of  Undervaluation
Rules, which enumerates and pro-
vides the structural guidelines
and framework for the mode of
calculation of  circle rates, lacks
pragmatic market considera-
tions,” said Gaurav Gambhir , a la-
wyer focused on real estate cases.Feedback include creation of a category A+ for
premium areas, rate overhaul for farmhouses
LOWER THAN MKT RATE
In most of Delhi’s high-
end colonies, the circle
rate is much lower than
the market rate, due to
which buyers pay part
of the amount in cash FMCG Cos Face
Disruption in Sept
Quarter, Upbeat 
on Future Growth
PTI
New Delhi: FMCG companies sel-
ling soap to soft drinks in the Indi-
an market reported some impact
on their sales in the September qu-
arter from disruption owing to
GST reforms, along with unusual-
ly heavy rains in parts of  the co-
untry , but they see growth in the
coming quarters, helped by favou-
rable macro-economic conditions.
Leading global markers, inclu-
ding Unilever , Reckitt, Heineken,
PepsiCo, and Coca-Cola, in their
respective earnings calls, have
mentioned challenges they faced
due to disruptions in trade chan-
nels in September .
“Our emerging market perfor-
mance is improving; India, in par-
ticular , is very well positioned
over the medium term. The GST
reform has had some impact in the
short-term, but we
believe it is very go-
od news for 40% of
our portfolio with
close to a 10% price
reduction," Unile-
ver CEO Fernando
Fernandez said.
British FMCG ma-
jor Reckitt said its
net revenue growth
in India was impac-
ted in the Septem-
ber quarter due to
the implementation of  new GST
slabs; however , it reported volu-
me-led growth in its germ protec-
tion brand Dettol.
Replying to a query in the ear-
nings call, Reckitt CFO Shannon
Eisenhardt said “the impact in Q3
of  GST phasing being low to mid-
single digits and that our India like-
for-like was low single digit in Q3.”
Dutch brewing major Heineken,
which owns United Breweries, sa-
id its India beer volume has been
impacted with a decline of  “mid-
single-digit” in the September qu-
arter on account of  unusual heavy
rains in parts of  the country du-
ring the monsoon.
Coca-Cola and PepsiCo also repor-
ted disruptions from rain in the
September quarter . However , while
replying to a query , Coca-Cola CEO
James Quincey said in the emer-
ging market business, India has at
one end “huge potential for growth
in volume over many , many years”
but at “much lower prices”.Sales hit by
GST reforms
and rains;
recovery
expected on
strong macro-
economic
conditions
EComm, QComm
Firms Flouting
Rules: Traders
IANS
New Delhi: The Confederation of
All India Traders (CAIT) has in a
letter to Union Minister of  Com-
merce & Industry Piyush Goyal al-
leged that “alarming and un-
checked violations” are being
committed by several e-commerce
and quick commerce companies
in the country .
Member of  Parliament and CAIT
Secretary General Praveen Khan-
delwal has expres-
sed deep concern in
the letter that many
of  these companies
are continuously
flouting existing le-
gal and policy fram-
eworks with comp-
lete impunity , un-
dermining fair tra-
de practices and
harming the inter-
ests of  small and
medium traders.
He has alleged
that, despite the go-
vernment’s clear
FDI guidelines and the Consumer
Protection (E-Commerce) Rules,
2020, several platforms continue
to operate as inventory-based mo-
dels under the guise of  marketpla-
ces, indulge in predatory pricing
and deep discounting, and offer
preferential treatment to select
sellers—actions that are in direct
violation of  the law , according to a
CAIT statement issued on Sunday .In a letter to
commerce
ministry,
CAIT alleged
platforms run
inventory-
based models
and indulge
in predatory
pricing
negative impact of  announce-
ments regarding the F-1 visas in
the past few months,” said Nave-
en Chopra, founder and chair-
man of  study abroad platform
The Chopras Group. “It is likely to
revive the interests among Indian
students to study in the US.”
Akshay Chaturvedi, founder
and CEO of  Leverage Edu, said
the clarification confirms that
the pathway remains open for stu-
dents planning to go now . They
can move seamlessly from study-
ing on an F-1 visa, to working un-
der OPT or STEM-OPT , and even-
tually transitioning to H-1B sta-Prachi Verma & Neil Ghai
New Delhi: T he Trump admini-
stration’s clarification that the
high H-1B visa fee does not apply
to international students study-
ing in the US on F-1 visa is expec-
ted to revive Indian students’ in-
terest in pursuing higher educa-
tion in the US after a slump, ex-
perts said.
The US has been historically the
most favourite international desti-
nation for Indian students, but the-
re was a clear dip in sentiments,
especially among parents, after
the US announced a $100,000 fee for
fresh H-1B work visa applications,
study abroad consultants said.
Monday’s clarification that the
one-time fee applies only to indi-
viduals currently outside the US
applying for fresh H-1B visas will
end the panic among Indian stu-
dents already in the US and the
confusion among those planning
to go there, experts said.
“This exemption of  internatio-
nal students will neutralise thetus within the country , he said.
“Historically , tens of  thou-
sands of  Indian students trans-
ition from F-1 to H-1B each year ,
forming one of  the strongest glo-
bal talent pipelines,” Chaturve-
di said.
But there definitely was a slow-
down in enquiries for the US,
especially among STEM students
considering post-study work op-
tions, with some considering
other options like Canada, the
UK, Germany and other Europe-
an countries, experts said.
“There was a noticeable 8-10%
uptick in interest toward count-ries like Germany , Ireland and
the UK, perceived as offering mo-
re predictable work pathways,”
said Abhijit Zaveri, founder of
education consulting firm Care-
er Mosaic. The Chopras Group
saw two out of  ten students can-
celling their plans of  studying in
the US in the last few months,
Chopra said. That has begun to
change. W ithin hours of  the upda-
te, Collegify counsellors saw a
sharp increase in US-focused coun-
selling sessions, according to its
cofounder Adarsh Khandelwal.
“Many Indian families who were
previously leaning toward Europeor Singapore are revisiting Ameri-
can universities because of  clarity
and career confidence,” he said.
Rahul Subramaniam, founder
of  Athena Education, too said the
confidence bounced back almost
immediately . 
“The USCIS clarification was a
big relief  for Indian students cur-
rently in the US and those plan-
ning to apply – graduates on OPT
who were anxious about whether
they could convert their student
visas to full-time roles,” he said.
According to Subramaniam, fami-
lies were considering other op-
tions when the $100,000 fee was first
announced. “But applications are
now higher year-on-year .” 
At Career Mosaic, enquiries for
STEM-linked master’s program-
mes in the US for fall 2026 intake
are already up by 10-12% compa-
red to the recently concluded fall
2025 admissions, Zaveri said. The
exemption applies only to stu-
dents who are in the US on an F-1
visa and later change their status
to H-1B, or those extending their
existing stay . 
Trump admin clarifies high visa fees will not apply to F-1 holders; move set to revive student interest as road to OPT stays open
NEW SHORES
Enquiries from STEM stu-
dents, especially those eye-
ing post-study work, had
slowed, with some explo-
ring Canada and EuropeH-1B Clarity Offers Hope to Indian Students’ US Dreams
this year’s performance has reaf-
firmed the growing consumer
preference for premium and tho-
ughtfully crafted spirits,” Radico
Khaitan chief  operating officer
Amar Sinha told PTI.
Its brands, such as Rampur Indi-
an Single Malt to Jaisalmer Indi-
an Craft Gin, have recorded ro-
bust growth across several high-
potential markets. “With the mo-
mentum built this festive season,
we remain confident of  maintai-
ning a healthy positive trajectory
into the third quarter as well,” he
said. AlcoBev makers expect this
momentum to continue through
the Christmas and New Year cele-
brations, driven by factors such
as rising consumer spending, hig-
her disposable incomes, and a yo-
ung, aspirational consumer base.
Helped by this, “ Alcobev industry
is expecting 10-20% upsurge in sa-
les this festive season (October-
December),” said Confederation
of  Indian Alcoholic Beverage
Companies (CIABC) director ge-
neral Anant S Iyer .AlcoBev Industry May
Grow 20% in Dec Qtr
PTI
New Delhi: The alcoholic bevera-
ge industry is on a high, with ne-
arly double-digit growth in festive
season sales, and now expects an
upswing of  around 20% in the Oc-
tober-December period, driven by
the premium spirits category .
The industry witnessed a spike
in sales across categories, whet-
her it’s IMFL or Scotch in the
whisky segment, or rum or white
spirits such as vodka, white rum,
gin and tequila in the almost one-
and-a-half-month festive season,
which is now in its conclusion.
This festive season, the industry
has witnessed higher growth in
the premium category , as well as
in smaller tier II & III markets,
alongside the developed markets.
“We have witnessed a highly en-
couraging festive season, with
strong uptake across our premi-
um and luxury portfolio. The fes-
tive months continue to be a key
consumption period in India, andFESTIVE CHEER
Rush  in Demand
REASONS FOR SALES PUSH:  Good 
monsoon, positive economic outlook
FACTORSTelangana reported revenue 
of `1k-cr over two days of 
Dussehra festivities
n   Rising consumer spending
n   Higher disposable incomes
n   Aspirational consumer baseDurga Puja festivities led to a 15–16% rise in sales in Kolkata
Domestic volume  
of branded spirits in 2024: 408 m cases
Contribution to FY24 excise: `3.5 L cr
YOGEESHCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGMP10 User: c-riyas.ali Time: 10-26-2025 23:49 Color:CMYK
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.11THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COMCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGMP1 1 User: k.eswar Time: 10-26-2025 21:59 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.US President Donald Trump unvei-
led a flurry of  trade deals during his
first day in Asia, looking to shore up
access to critical minerals and a
market for US agricultural goods
ahead of  a critical meeting with Chi-
nese President Xi Jinping.
“Mymessage to the nations of  So-
utheast Asia is that the United States
is with you 100% and we intend to be
astrong partner and friend for many
generations to come,” Trump said at
the Association of  Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) meeting in Kuala
Lumpur on Sunday .
The US president dangled exemp-
tions from his reciprocal tariff  re-
gime on key exports from Thai-
land, Cambodia, Vietnam and Ma-
laysia as part of  the agreements.
He also expressed optimism du-
ring a meeting with Brazilian Pre-
sident Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
that they could easily strike a trade
agreement, as the Latin American
country seeks to reduce the 50% ta-
riff  on many of  its goods .
The White House’s hope is that the
framework trade pacts — set to be
enacted in the coming weeks — can
bolster Trump’s hand before he sits
down with Xi later this week in So-
uth Korea. Ahead of  that summit,
Beijing has cut off  soybean purcha-
ses and announced new restric-
tions on critical mineral exports,
earning Trump’s ire and threate-
ning to roil the US econom y.
Still, the scant details offered in ma-
ny of  the framework agreements
made it difficult to gauge their ulti-
mate impact. While countries agre-
ed to roll back tariffs and regulations
on the purchase of  US goods, negoti-
ations will continue on what relief
they will receive — and whether key
sectors like apparel and electronics
earn a brea k.
“It’s a step in the right direction
but there’s still considerable uncer-
tainty out there,” said Peter Mum-
ford, who covers Southeast Asia at
risk consultancy Eurasia Group, ci-
ting questions on the rules of  origin
for reciprocal agreements, sectoral
tariffs and transshipment levies.
“And none of  these are legally bin-
ding agreements too. They’re all qu-imposed on Cambodian goods.
While Cambodia is “pleased” with
the agreement, the nation also hopes
the US will lower the rates for gar-
ment, footwear and travel goods,
Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister
Sun Chanthol said in a text message.
The garment industry makes up mo-
re than half  of  Cambodia’s exports.
“We wish to thank President
Trump for granting us the reciprocal
rate that allows us the ability to com-
pete and expand our trade and in-
vestment,” Sun Chanthol added .
The White House also reached anite flexible agreements .”
Southeast Asia is now a larger so-
urce of  goods for the US than China,
underscoring the potential impor-
tance of  the deals signed on Sunday .
That’s particularly true for Viet-
nam, which is rising quickly as a top
exporter to the US.
The pact with Cambodia affirms
the country will drop all its tariffs on
US food and agricultural imports as
well as industrial products. In ex-
change, the White House identified
hundreds of  goods it planned to ex-
empt from the 19% tariff  Trump hasagreement with Thailand that will
eliminate tariff  barriers on 99% of
US goods, including the full range on
industrial, food and agricultural
products. The US will soon identify a
set of  Thai goods it plans to exempt
from reciprocal tariffs. Like Cambo-
dia, exports from Thailand current-
ly face a 19% rate. The two countries
also signed a critical minerals pact
that should offer US companies pre-
ferential access to rare earths, cruci-
al minerals used to produce high-
tech products including semicon-
ductors and jet engines. BloombergTrump Unveils Flurry of Asia
Trade Pacts Ahead of Xi Meet
Trump’s Asia Trade Blitz
US President unveils string of trade pacts across Southeast Asia 
to secure critical minerals and open markets for American farm goods ahead of Xi meeting.
THAILAND PACT 
Eliminates tariffs
on 99% ofUS goods
Includes rare earths cooperation  deal
VIETNAM & MALAYSIA 
Offer preferential access for US agricultural exports
Tariff exemptions 
for local goodsunder negotiation
POLITICAL UNDERCURRENTS 
China freezes US 
soybean purchases , 
tightening 
pressure on Trump. US farmers hit as Beijing buys from Argentina instead
 THE BIGGER PICTURE 
Rare earths, farm trade & tariff diplomacy at the core of US–China rivalrySoutheast Asia now surpasses China as a goods source for the USTHE BIG PLAY
Seeks to shore up critical mineral supply  and expand 
agri exports
Partners to roll back levies  on US 
food, farm & industrial productsTrump signs framework deals with 
Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam & Malaysia
Exemptions  from 
Trump’s 19–20% 
reciprocal tariffs offeredTARIFF RELIEF ON THE TABLE
CRITICAL MINERALS DRIVE 
Pacts with Thailand& Malaysia  grant US firms 
preferential rare-earth access
China still controls 
~70% of the market
CAMBODIA PACT 
Drops all tariffs on US agri & industrial imports
Phnom Penh seeks lower 
rates  on garments, 
footwear & 
travel goods
CAMBODIA PACT 
VIETNAM & 
POLITICAL 
CRITICAL MINERALS DRIVE 
Yesterday’s Answers:Crossword 9427
ACROSS
6 Illicit pleasure’s fun for bird tied up (9,5)
9 Start to tear and shred slip (4,2)
10 Organise meals out for bosom pal (8)
11 Seethe quietly at onset of slow de-cay (8)
13 Kind mother (6)
15 Vague idea every single thing’s been turned off? (6)
17 Pass three quarters of an hour in the shade (6)
19 Sold it back, excluding acre, like e.g. Marquis (6)
20 Do stretch? Normal in mixed gaol in Paris summer (8)
22 Relief work involves toiling with leader of Amnesty (8)
24 Worry in attempt to get agreement (6)
26 Thank you kindly; I did find motion odd (1,4,4,2,1,2)
DOWN1 A4 read out and referred to above (14)2 Understanding inscription un-der top of gravestone (4)
3 It’s very clear one politician’s wearing hat (6)
4 One Nationalist’s cruelly un-done by insinuation (8)
5 British–Russian space station goes over the edge (4)
7 Give up your weapons! Madrid’s fallen, all but 500 (6)
8 Explanation of blend of nitrate with protein (14)
12 Till unit dismantled by trainee (5)
14 Stripper finally left crowd wearing it? (5)
16 Former lover in gold lame, topless, hugs fellow (3,5)
18 Brave woman gives up ecstasy for stronger drug (6)
21 Nothing but trouble I had to make higher offer (6)
23 Queen enters — better late than never (4)
25 16’s sex appeal way out! (4)1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8
9 10
11 12 13 14
15 16 17
18
20 21 19
22
2623 24 25
©The Daily MailSOLUTION TO No. 9426:
ACROSS: 1 Hippies. 5 Demise. 
9 Delayer. 10 Sea salt. 11 Ifs.
12 Sober-minded. 13 Gemma. 
14 Rudiments. 16 Broadcast. 
17 Idols.19 Prevaricate. 22 Awn. 
23 Delouse. 24 Portico. 26 Egress. 
27 Eugenie.DOWN: 1 Hedging. 
2 Pull someone’s leg. 3 Icy. 
4 Shrub. 5 Discredit. 6 Miami. 
7 Standing ovation. 8 At odds. 
12 Stand. 14 Readiness. 15 Maize. 
16 Bipeds. 18 San Jose. 20 Acute. 
21 Apple. 25 Rig.NON-SEQUITUR
Washington: US President Donald
Trump once again claimed that India is
going to stop buying oil from Russia,
emphasising that India is cutting back
Russian oil purchases “completely”
while China will cut back “very sub-
stantially .”
Talking to reporters onboard Air For-
ce One on his way to Malaysia, on Sa-
turday , Trump said that “India is cut-
ting back” Russian oil purchases
“completely .”
While responding to a question about
raising the issue of  Russian oil with
Chinese President Xi Jinping during
their meeting, Trump said he might
discuss Russian oil purchases with Xi.
“I m ay be discussing it, but you know
China, you probably saw it today . Chi-
na's cutting back very substantially
on the purchase of  Russian oil,”
Trump said .
Trump is set to meet Xi on the sideli-
nes of  the Asia-Pacific
Economic Coopera-
tion (APEC) summit in
South Korea.
The US president and
his administration ha-
ve been claiming for
the past few days that
India has assured that
it will significantly re-
duce its oil imports
from Russia.
However , India has
been maintaining that
its energy policy is gui-
ded by its own national
interest, especially en-
suring affordable and
secure supplies for its
consumers.
According to the US, India is helping
Russian President Vladimir Putin to fi-
nance the Ukraine war through its pur-
chase of  crude oil from Moscow .
The relations between New Delhi and
Washington have been reeling under se-
vere stress after Trump doubled tariffs
on Indian goods to a whopping 50%, in-
cluding a 25% additional duty for India's
purchase of  Russian crude oil. India
described the US action as "unfair , unjus-
tified and unreasonable".
While answering another question,
Trump has once again claimed to resol-
ve the conflict between India and Pa-
kistan. Trump said he thought that
other wars, including the one between
India and Pakistan, would be difficult
to resolve and settling the Russia and
Ukraine war would be easy , but he was
wrong.
“If  you look at India and Pakistan, I
could say almost any one of  the deals
that I've already done, I thought would
have been more difficult than Russia
and Ukraine, but it didn't work out that
way . There's a lot of  hatred between the
two, between Zelenskyy and Putin.
There's tremendous hatred,” Trump
added. PTI
Trump Claims
Again that India
Will End Russian
Oil Purchases
threatened to plunge the world’s
two largest economies back into
an all-out trade war .
Trump himself  predicted a
“good deal with China” as he
spoke with reporters on the side-
lines of  the Association of  Sout-
heast Asian Nations summit in
Kuala Lumpur , saying he expec-
ted additional leader-level fol-
low-up meetings in China and
the US. “They want to make a de-
al, and we want to make a deal,”
Trump said.
Chinese trade envoy Li Cheng-
gang, whom Bessent called “un-
hinged” earlier this month,
described the talks as intense
and the US position as tough, but
hailed progress in the discus-
sions. Both sides will now report
the outcome back to their lea-
ders ahead of  a planned summit
between Trump and Xi on
Thursday .
“The current turbulences
and twists and turns are ones
that we do not wish to see,” Li
told reporters, adding that a
stable China-US trade and eco-
nomic relationship is good for
both countries and the rest of
the wor ld.BloombergTop trade negotiators for the
US and China said they came
to terms on a range of  conten-
tious points, setting the table
for leaders Donald Trump and
Xi Jinping to finalise a deal
and ease trade tensions that
have rattled global markets.
After two days of  talks in Ma-
laysia wrapped up Sunday , a
Chinese official said the two si-
des reached a preliminary con-
sensus on topics including ex-
port controls, fentanyl and
shipping levies. 
US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent, speaking later in an in-
terview with CBS News, said
Trump’s threat of  100% tariffs
on Chinese goods “is effectively
off  the table” and he expected
the Asian nation to make “sub-
stantial” soybean purchases as
well as offer a deferral on swee-
ping rare earth controls. The US
wouldn’t change its export cont-
rols directed at China, he added. 
“So I would expect that the thre-
at of  the 100% has gone away , as
has the threat of  the immediate
imposition of  the Chinese initia-
ting a worldwide export control
regime,” Bessent said. He sepa-
rately told ABC News he belie-
ved China would delay its rare-
earth restrictions “for a year
while they reexamine it.”
Bessent telegraphed a wide-
ranging agreement between
Trump and Xi that would extend
atariff  truce, resolve differen-
ces over the sale of  TikTok and
keep up the flow of  rare earth
magnets necessary for the pro-
duction of  advanced products
from semiconductors to jet engi-
nes. The two leaders are also
planning to discuss a global pea-
ce plan, he said, after Trump sa-
id publicly he hoped to enlist Xi’s
help in resolving Russia’s war in
Ukraine.
The encouraging signals from
both sides of  the negotiations
were a marked contrast from re-
cent weeks, when Beijing’s an-
nouncement of  new export rest-
rictions and Trump’s reciprocal
threat of  staggering new tariffs
US, China Prep Up
Major Trade Deal for
Trump–Xi to Finalise
our doors and balcony ,” she said. 
Russia attacked Ukraine with 101
drones overnight into Sunday , accor-
ding to Ukraine's air force, of  which
90 were shot down and neutralized.
Five drones hit four locations and
drone debris fell on five other places,the statement said. 
The attack came a day after a Russi-
an missiles and drones killed four pe-
ople, including two Kyiv , prompting
fresh pleas from Ukraine’s President
Volodymyr Zelenskyy for Western
air defense systems. APRussia Targets Kyiv in Drone
Assault, Leaving 3 Dead, 29 Hurt
Kyiv: Russia targeted Ukraine's
capital with drones, killing three
people in their homes, authorities
said early Sunday . 
At least 29 people were wounded,
seven of  them children, in the se-
cond consecutive nighttime at-
tack on Kyiv to claim civilian li-
ves. Ukraine's Interior Minister
Ihor Klymenko said a 19-year-old
woman and her 46-year-old mot-
her were among the killed. 
Russian drones caused fires in two
residential buildings in the capital's
Desnianskyi district. Emergency
crews evacuated civilians from a ni-
ne-story and a 16-story building, put
out flames and cleared the rubble. 
Olha Yevhenivha, 74, said there
was so much smoke from the fire
that she couldn’t leave her apart-
ment. “Even until now our windows
are totally black from the smoke, and
it was impossible to go down, so
that’s why we put wet blankets onge the tough
choices fa-
ced by a fi-
nance mini-
ster .
However ,
the Opposi-
tion MP beli-
eves the ans-
wer for the Labour government
lies in spending cuts rather
than tax hikes as the latter wo-
uld have a depressionary effect
on economic growth.
“Raising taxes would be a dis-
aster for the UK — and particu-larly if  increases are concentra-
ted on a narrow base as Reeves
tries to remain technically
compliant with manifesto com-
mitments. Such tax rises would
be particularly distortionary
and damaging to growth,” wri-
tes Sunak.
“The choice then is simple:
spending cuts or tax rises. If  the
chancellor opts for the latter , it
will crush confidence still furt-
her and depress growth, ma-
king next year's budget even
more painful than this one will
be,” he said. PTISunak Pens Column, Advises Against Tax Hikes 
London: Former prime mini-
ster Rishi Sunak on Sunday be-
gan a new role as a newspaper
columnist with some advice for
the government ahead of  the
UK budget next month, cautio-
ning Chancellor Rachel Reeves
against resorting to tax rises to
bolster the nation's finances.
Writing in ‘The Sunday Ti-
mes', the 45-year-old former
chancellor in the Conservative
Party-led government draws
upon his own experiences in the
Treasury at No. 11 Downing
Street in London to acknowled-
Cairo: Hamas expanded its search for
the bodies of  hostages in new areas in
the Gaza Strip Sunday , the Palestinian
group said, a day after Egypt deployed
ateam of  experts and heavy equip-
ment to help retrieve the bodies.
Under the fragile US-brokered cease-
fire, reached on October 10, Hamas is
expected to return all of  the remains
Israeli hostages as soon as possible. Is-
rael agreed to give back 15 bodies of  Pa-
lestinians for every body of  a hostage. 
Thus far , Israel has sent back the bo-
dies of  195 Palestinians. Hamas has
since returned 18 bodies of  hostages,
but in the past five days, failed to relea-
se any .
An Egyptian team and heavy equip-
ment, including an excavator and bull-
dozers, entered Gaza Saturday to help
search for the hostages’ bodies, part of
efforts by international mediators to
shore up the ceasefire, two Egyptian
officials said, who spoke on condition
of  anonymity because they were not
authorized to talk to the media. APHamas Broadens Gaza
Search for Hostages
as Egypt Joins Efforttive trade talks with Washington be-
ing put on hold.
Both sides blame each other for
starting the five-day exchange of
rockets and heavy artillery , which
killed at least 48 people and tempo-
rarily displaced an estimated
300,000 in their worst fighting in re-
cent history . Trump has touted him-
self  as a global peacemaker during
his second term and his decision to
weigh in behind Malaysian premiernary statesmanship".
'STRONG COMMITMENT TO
STABILITY AND PEACE' At a cere-
mony during a summit of  the Sout-
heast Asian bloc ASEAN in Kuala
Lumpur , with a backdrop covered in
US insignia and the words "Delive-
ring Peace", Trump called the two le-
aders courageous, adding the truce
he brokered saved "millions of  lives".
"Because of  America's strong com-
mitment to stability and peace in
this region and every region where
we can do it, my administration im-mediately began working to prevent
the conflict from escalating," Trump
said, describing the agreement as a
peace treaty . "We just did the deal and
reported the deal. Everybody was
sort of  amazed that we got it done so
quickly ," he said, noting that the Uni-
ted Nations was not inv olved.
Guns have been largely silent
along the border , though both sides
have frequently accused each other
of  ceasefire violations that the en-
hanced agreement seeks to prevent.
ReutersCambodia, Thailand Sign Expanded Ceasefire Alongside Truce-broker Trump
Kuala Lumpur: T he leaders of
Thailand and Cambodia signed an
enhanced ceasefire deal on Sunday
in the presence of  US President Do-
nald Trump, whose intervention in
their fierce border conflict earned
him a Nobel Peace Prize nomina-
tion. The agreement builds on a tru-
ce signed three months ago after
Trump called the then-leaders of
the two countries, urging them to
end hostilities, or risk their respec-
Trump says agreement reflects US quest for peace
Thai PM Anutin
Charnvirakul
watches as
Cambodia's PM
Hun Manet and
US President
Donald Trump
shake hands.
REUTERS
Anwar Ibrahim's mediation efforts
led to Cambodian Prime MinisterHun Manet nominating him for the
Nobel Prize, lauding his "extraordi-India has been
maintaining
that its energy
policy is
guided by its
own national
interest,
especially
ensuring
affordable and
secure
supplies for its
consumers
East Timor
Joins ASEAN
KUALA LUMPUR The Associa-
tion of  Southeast Asian Na-
tions (ASEAN) welcomed
East Timor as its newest
member Sunday , which its
prime minister said was a
“dream realized” for the tiny
nation. 
“Today , history is made,”
Prime Minister Xanana Gus-
mao told the other leaders as
the flag of  East Timor , also
known as Timor Leste, was
added to the other 10 on the
stage at a formal ceremony in
Kuala Lumpur . 
It was ASEAN's first expan-
sion since the 1990s and was
more than a decade in the ma-
king. “For the people of  Ti-
mor Leste this is not only a
dream realized, but a power-
ful affirmation of  our jour-
ney — one marked by resili-
ence, determination and ho-
pe,” he said. APWashington seeks to widen trade footprint in Asia amid tensions with Beijing
TRADE TENSIONS
Trade envoys from both
sides will now report
the outcome back to
their leaders ahead of
aplanned summit
between Trump and
Xi on ThursdayEast Timor President Jose Ramos-
Horta (right) and Prime Minister
Kay Rala Xanana Gusmao 
Russia Tests a New Nuclear-capable missile: Putin
MOSCOW Russia tested a new nuclear-capable and powe-
red cruise missile fit to confound existing defenses, in-
ching closer to deploying it to its military , President Vladi-
mir Putin claimed in remarks released on Sunda y .
Putin, dressed in camouflage fatigues, could be seen
meeting with senior Russian military figures, according to a video rele-
ased by the Kremlin. The footage showed Gen. Valery Gerasimov , Rus-
sia’s chief  of  general staff, telling the Russian leader that the Burevest-
nik covered 14,000 kilometers (8,700 miles) in a key test Tuesday .
Gerasimov said the Burevestnik, or Storm Petrel in Russian, spent 15
hours in the air , adding “that’s not the limit.” “We need to determine the
possible uses and begin preparing the infrastructure for deploying the-
se weapons to our armed forces,” Putin told Gerasimov in the video and
instructed him to work on the missile’s final tests. AP
12}
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Around the WorldCONTRAPUNTO No nation was ever ruined by trade. BENJAMIN FRANKLINCCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGMP12 User: k.eswar Time: 10-27-2025 00:03 Color:CMYK
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.www.etpanache.com
ADVERTORIAL & 
PROMOTIONAL FEATUREFunny side
Actor Michael J Fox, 
who’s battling 
Parkinson’s, called the 
disease a ‘bully’, but 
said he tries to keep his 
sense of humour intact
This season, Raymond Made 
to Measure reimagines  celebration wear with an eye on luxury and craftsmanship.
The Festive/Winter ’25  
Celebration Wear is an ode to life’s most special moments. Each piece is a work of artistry, crafted to precise measurements, refined with exquisite fabrics and finished with a personal touch. 
Every detail is considered to ensure 
a perfect fit, creating a look that is distinguished and refined. Each ensemble embodies style, grace and individuality. 
Raymond Made to Measure Celebration 
Wear presents a curated range for every discerning gentleman, spanning the western, Indo-western and  Indian wear collections. Every line is designed to elevate celebratory occasions. 
Western collection 
The western collection exemplifies contemporary refinement with geometric motifs, rich rust-hued suits and luxurious flocked fabric tuxedo jackets. Each tuxedo, ceremonial suit and evening jacket combines timeless elegance with modern finesse. Indo-western collection 
The Indo-western range, blending Indian heritage with contemporary design, features tonal embroidered bandhgalas, concealed 
placket styles and jewel-toned jacquard 
jackets. These ensembles radiate bold style 
and global appeal, which are perfect for 
destination weddings. 
Indian wear collection 
The Indian wear collection celebrates luxury and festive grandeur rooted in 
Indian tradition, with floral embroidered jackets, woven textured kurtas, sherwanis and ceremonial attire that exudes elegance. 
Experience unparalleled luxury at a 
Raymond Made to Measure store. Enjoy 
express order services within a week with complimentary alterations, ensuring your celebration look is impeccably refined. At Raymond Made to Measure, every outfit transforms occasions into unforgettable statements of style and elegance
.
Visit the nearest Raymond Made to Measure store at: 3rd Block, Jayanagar; 27th Main, HSR Layout; VM Road, Commercial Street; 100 Feet Road, Indiranagar; Orion Mall, Malleshwaram; Phoenix Mall of Asia. At Raymond Made to Measure, 
craftsmanship and attention to detail come together to define occasion wear for the modern gentleman
Luxury crafted for 
celebration
Enjoy Raymond Made 
to Measure luxury from home with our Exclusive Concierge Service.
Scan to schedule your 
home appointmentI work for a Fortune 
100 company. I have a new manager who is instituting twice a week in-person team meetings that begin at 7 am. I rarely get home before 7 pm when I’m working from the office. Having 7 am meetings would mean I miss out on spending time with my kids — from sending them to school to making and eating dinner with them. I have a consistent track record of excellent appraisals. How can I approach trying to find a workable environment? It doesn’t sound as if your new manager has fully explained their reasoning for a 7 am meeting, and knowing why would help.
But it’s also likely 
that your boss doesn’t fully understand the shape of your days. At your next check-in, broach the topic of the new schedule. Ask how you are expected to prioritise your time on the days when you start in-office at 7 am.
Explain to your boss 
that the best option for you to continue contributing at a high level is to commute home in the afternoon and finish your calls and emails from home, after handling family responsibilities.
Or construct a schedule 
where on the days you are in office from 7 am, your workday ends at 3 pm, so you have put in a very reasonable eight-hour day.
A good manager 
won’t want to lose you and your excellent record of appraisals
.
I was promoted a year ago over a colleague, and she has been uncooperative, insubordinate and belligerent in a passive-aggressive way ever since. But my boss thinks we ‘need’ her. Should I quit?An internal promotion can be a difficult situation to navigate. Even in an entirely fair and well-handled process, it is challenging to adjust to treating someone as a peer one day and higher up the ladder the next.
It’s difficult to give 
people bad news. Telling someone she didn’t get a promotion, while her colleague did, is a hard message to deliver. Especially because, it seems, your boss wanted to keep this person.
If your colleague’s 
behaviour is negatively affecting your ability to get your work done, you should talk to your boss. Make sure to do it in as constructive a way as possible, one that does not involve discussion of feelings or attitudes. Tell your boss that you want to address areas in which collaboration and communication could improve for everyone’s benefit. Talk strategies, not slights.
That’s if this situation 
is affecting your ability to do your job. If it’s not, ignore it
.
— The New York Times 
“To be honest, I hated the 
process. Negotiations maybe aren’t my thing.”— CHRISTIAN 
BRAUN,  a 
shooting guard for 
the NBA side 
Denver Nuggets, on 
the talks that yielded his 
ﬁ v e - y e a r ,  
$125-million contract 
extension with the team
Tips to manage tricky workplace 
situations without losing your coolIs 7 am too early for a meeting?
quote             unquote
quote             unquote
 Raymond Made to Measure store PICS: NYT, GETTY IMAGES PIC: REUTERSBENGALURU
MONDA Y
27 OCTOBER 2025
Visakhapatnam:  An emotional 
Sophie Devine was given a guard of  
honour as the New Zealand captain played her last ODI in Sunday’s eight-wicket loss to England at the Women’s World Cup, ending an ODI career spanning 19 years and 159 matches.
All-rounder Devine, 36, made her 
debut in October 2006 and is one of  three women to complete the double of  scoring 4,000 runs and taking 100 wickets in the 50-over format, along with Stafanie Taylor and Ellyse Perry .
Devine, who also represented New 
Zealand in field hockey before focus-ing on cricket, led the country to vic-tory in last year’s Twenty20 World Cup. She will continue to play in the 20-over format. “It was about enjoying it today and going back to the roots of  19 years ago and why I play ,” said Devine, who scored 23 runs and dis-missed Heather Knight as New Zealand ended their World Cup cam-paign in the group stage.
Devine scored nine centuries and 18 
fifties, amassing 4,279 runs and 111 wickets in the format. The white-ball specialist, known for her heavy hitting, became the first woman to hit nine sixes in an ODI innings when she scored 93 runs against Pakistan in just 41 balls in 2017.
She also jointly holds the 
record for scoring the fastest fifty in women’s T20 internationals with  Australia’s Phoebe Litchfield, both having completed half-centuries in just 18 balls. “Enjoy it while it lasts but realise cricket is just a game. Not fully done just yet so sure I’ll be annoying people around the grounds,” Devine added.  
Reuters
BRIEF SCORES NZ 168 all out in 38.2 
overs (Georgia Plimmer 43, Amelia 
Kerr 35; Linsey Smith 3 for 30) lost to England  172 for 2 in 29.2 overs (Amy 
Jones 86 not out) by 8 wickets
INDIA-BANGLADESH TIE ABANDONED
In Navi Mumbai, India and 
Bangladesh shared points after their match was abandoned because of  rain, on Sunday . Chasing a revised target of  126 in a 27-over-a-side game, India were cruising along nicely at 57 without loss in 8.4 overs when anoth-er spell of  shower forced the umpires to call off  the contest. India have al-ready qualified for the semifinals.
The hosts though, suffered a major 
injury scare after opener Pratika 
Rawal hurt her ankle and knee 
while fielding as her right foot 
got stuck into the turf  on the 
final ball of  the 21st over . 
She collapsed, grimacing 
in pain. All eyes will re-
main on her recovery as 
India will take on 
Australia in the semifinal 
in Navi Mumbai on 
Thursday .  
Agencies
BRIEF SCORES Bang
119/9 in 27 overs 
(Akhter 36, Radha 3 
for 30).  India  57 for 
no loss in 8.4 overs
Result  Match called 
off due to rain
No Fairytale Ending HereNo Fairytale Ending HereWOMEN’S ODI WORLD CUPMadrid: Jude Bellingham’s goal helped Real Madrid beat Barcelona 2-1 to win a tense Clasico and move five points clear of  their bitter rivals at the top of  La Liga on Sunday .
Champions Barcelona won all four 
times the teams were pitted against each other last season but in his first Clasico as Real Madrid coach, Xabi Alonso snapped that run.
Kylian Mbappe, who later missed a 
penalty , fired Madrid in front and al-though Fermin Lopez levelled for the visitors at the Santiago Bernabeu, Bellingham netted a second for the hosts before half-time which proved decisive.
Barca playmaker Pedri was sent off  in 
the final stages for a second yellow card as tensions spilled over in the Spanish capital.
Madrid’s victory means they have won 
nine of  their opening 10 league games and Alonso’s side proved against Barca they can triumph on the big occasion, following their derby humbling by Atletico Madrid in September .
Hansi Flick’s team were led on the 
touchline by his assistant Marcus Sorg, as the German coach was suspended fol-lowing a red card last weekend as they scraped a victory over relegation-bat-tling Girona.
Barcelona were without several regu-
lar starters, including Raphinha, Robert Lewandowski and Dani Olmo among others, while Lamine Yamal still does not appear fully fit after a groin injury but started.
The teenager wound up Madrid fans in 
the week by claiming Los Blancos “steal” and “complain” and his name was greeted with a chorus of  jeers when read out before kick-off.
Barcelona had more of  the ball in the 
first half  but it was largely sterile pos-session and Madrid created the most dangerous opportunities.
The hosts were awarded an early pen-
alty when Yamal appeared to bring down Vinicius Junior . However it was cancelled after a V AR review as it was the Brazilian initiated the contact.
Madrid fans’ ire at the officials grew 
when Mbappe blasted home from out-side the area but the goal was ruled out for a milimetric offside against the French superstar .
Mbappe did not have long to wait be-
fore he could celebrate in earnest, after superb work by Bellingham sent him through on goal.
The forward, the division’s top goals-
corer , netted his 11th league goal of  the campaign with a lethal low finish past Wojciech Szczesny .
The goalkeeper made a good save from Dean Huijsen while Bellingham and Fede Valverde went close as Madrid took control.
Szczesny stopped efforts from Vinicius 
and Bellingham again, and it was against the run of  play when Barcelona equalised.
Arda Guler gave away possession in a 
dangerous area and Marcus Rashford, playing in his first Clasico, crossed for Lopez to blast the visitors level in the 38th minute. Bellingham struck Madrid’s second five minutes later to give Los Blancos a deserved advantage at the interval. 
AFPVITALS
NZ captain Devine ends remarkable 19-yr ODI career with Eng loss
Don’t worry about Canada. The na-tional mood is ecstatic.
The World Series began Friday night 
in Toronto, featuring the Blue Jays and the Los Angeles Dodgers, with a politi-cal subplot simmering in the back-ground between the United States and Canada — a relationship frayed by months of  tariffs, retaliatory tariffs and threats to Canada’s sovereignty .
The Blue Jays, Canada’s only MLB 
(Major League Baseball) team, haven’t played for a championship since they won in 1993, and that has kept the World Series within America’s bor-ders since. But Friday night, any ten-sion between the countries felt firmly contained to the baseball field.
The scrappy ballclub has become 
“Canada’s team.” They are up against the defending champions — a glamour team led by megastar Shohei Ohtani, who pitches and hits equally well.
In the sixth inning, Toronto pinch 
hitter Addison Barger hit a grand slam that stunned America’s baseball fortress. The 11-4 win by the Blue Jays gave them a 1-0 lead in the best-of-sev-en series.
On the eve of  Game 1, President 
Donald Trump announced that he was cutting off  all trade negotiations with Canada. He was reacting to an ad, paid for by the province of  Ontario, that featured Ronald Reagan criticizing tariffs in a 1987 radio address.
In certain circles, politics may have 
been the day’s roiling undercurrent, but in the streets and at the field level, it was eclipsed by ungovernable love of  the Blue Jays and a thrilling out-come that many American baseball pundits did not expect.On the field, performers dressed in 
red or white arranged as the stripes of  the American flag. As one anthem turned to the other , the formation shed its blue sheet with white stars and re-configured as the Canadian flag with its red maple leaf.
The symbolism was unmistakable 
and powerful. So were the underdog Blue Jays, who blew apart the Dodgers on Barger’s grand slam, sending the stadium into a frenzy .
“It was just madness,” he said.In the seventh inning, Ohtani would 
hit his first career World Series home run but was otherwise tamed on Canadian soil. By the ninth inning, Blue Jays fans were chanting to Ohtani, who had once entertained signing with the team, “We don’t need you! We don’t need you!”
“The crowd was electric tonight,” 
said the manager of  the Blue Jays, John Schneider . “They have been waiting a long time for a World Series to come back here.”
Prime Minister Mark Carney of  
Canada, who told reporters that he was prepared to resume talks when his American counterpart was ready , visited the Blue Jays’ practice Thursday .
“The whole country is behind this 
team,” Carney said, predicting Toronto’s victory .
No doubt the World Series means 
everything to Dodgers fans, but in Canada, it means everything to a 
whole nation. After Barger’s grand 
slam, many fans were crying.
“Signing here, I didn’t necessarily un-
derstand one team for an entire coun-
try ,” said pitcher Kevin Gausman. “Now that I’ve been here for four years, I really understand how much they love us, how much they support us, 
how much they want us to succeed.”
Then, in Game 2 on Saturday night, 
Yoshinobu Yamamoto’s complete-
game masterclass on the mound and home runs from Will Smith and Max Muncy propelled the Dodgers to a 5-1 victory that knotted the World Series 
at one game apiece on Saturday .
It’s all to play for in Game 3 come 
Monday night.
The New York Times Its US, Canada rivalry on the MLB field with Blue Jays and Rodgers locked at 1-1Of A Home Run in Times of TariffFIFA Announces New 
ASEAN Cup Tourney
Kuala Lumpur: England FIFA 
President Gianni Infantino unveiled a new football tournament for Southeast Asian nations on Sunday at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit in Malaysia. Southeast Asia already stages the ASEAN Championship, a biennial regional competition, with Vietnam winning the most recent edition in January, but Infantino said the new tournament will be held during FIFA’s international match window allowing players from leagues around the world to join their national teams. “Through the FIFA ASEAN Cup, we are uniting countries together, and this competition will be a huge success,” said Infantino.   
AP
BOATENG’S COACHING WISH
Bayern Shelve Plans  
after Fans’ Red Card 
Munich: Bayern Munich says that 
the former Bayern and Germany 
defender Jérôme Boateng will not visit the club to develop his coaching career after protests by fans related to Boateng’s conviction last year for causing bodily harm to his former partner. Bayern coach Vincent Kompany had indicated last month that he’d welcome Boateng spending time with the club as part of his plans to launch a coaching career. Bayern fans had displayed banners objecting to Boateng’s presence. “In a constructive exchange between FC Bayern and Jérôme Boateng this week, it was decided that Jérôme Boateng will not be visiting FC Bayern to observe training,” Bayern said in a statement late Saturday.  
AP
Shawna Richer
London:  Erling Haaland’s scoring 
streak ended Sunday in Manchester City’s first loss in nearly two months, allowing Arsenal to extend their lead to four points in the Premier League.Arsenal’s 1-0 win over Crystal Palace —secured via a brilliant scissor kick 
by former Palace player Eberechi Eze (centre, in pic above )—was made 
all the sweeter by City losing 1-0 at Aston Villa, with right back Matty Cash grabbing the winner from a fierce 19th-minute strike.It was City’s first defeat since Aug. 31 and meant Haaland’s 12-game scoring run for club and country — stretching back even further, to Aug. 23 — is over. The Norway striker did bundle the ball into the net in the 90th minute, before crashing into the post, but the goal was ruled out for offside. Somewhat surprisingly, Arsenal’s closest challenger now is Bournemouth, who won 2-0 at home to Nottingham Forest. Even more unlikely is the sight of promoted Sunderland a point further back in third place — and a point ahead of fourth-placed City.
AgenciesGunners Firm on Top 
with Win, City LoseEl Chaosico
Scuffle marks a tense game as Real 
defeat Barcelona 2-1 to end four-
match losing streak to arch-rivals
Real and Barca players scuffle during LaLiga in Madrid on Sunday AP 
El Chaosico
CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGMP13 User: k.eswar Time: 10-27-2025 00:21 Color:CMYK
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.14/triangle45right
THE ECONOMIC TIMES | BENGALURU | MONDA Y | 27 OCTOBER 2025 | WWW .ECONOMICTIMES.COM Economy: Macro, Micro & More
deliberations told ETthat the govern-
ment funding is aimed at providing
beneficiaries with broader access toboth high-end government and priva-te training providers where the costof  skills training is much higher . 
“Besides, funding will be prioritised
for emerging sectors like renewableenergy , semiconductors, electric vehi-cles, defence and other high-tech and
sunrise sectors toprepare a pool of  trai-ned manpower as In-dia works towards be-coming self-reliantand Viksit Bharat,”the official added.
Other proposals in
the pipeline to deve-lop a robust fundingmechanism include
targeted interest subvention to margi-nalised groups and special regions toimprove accessibility and affordabili-ty of  skilling and expanding blendedfinance model through philanthropicand corporate social responsibility(CSR) funding sources. The government is of  the view that
India’s skill finance market needs tobe expanded through credit guarante-es and better data for loan underwri-ting, thus reducing risks for lendersand enhancing skills finance.
Besides, the ministry will develop a
comprehensive rating system for skil-ling institutions to enhance transpa-rency and allowing uninterrupted fi-nance to best rated institutions.
After the success of  the pilot launch
of  the Skill Voucher Program, the mi-nistry also plans to roll out the pro-gramme across India to help individu-als choose courses aligned with theircareer aspirations until a comprehen-sive funding scheme is rolled out. 
A skill voucher programme is a trai-
ning funding model where individu-als receive vouchers to enrol in a cour-se of  their choice from accredited in-stitutions, often with a small co-pay-ment. The government or a sponsorprovides the voucher , and the traininginstitution can redeem it for cash af-ter the student completes the trainingand meets performance criteria.Skill Financing Scheme Planned
with Focus on Emerging Sectors
Yogima Seth
New Delhi: India is firming up a new
scheme—Pradhan Mantri KaushalMudra Yojana (PMKMY)— to fundskilling of  the country’s growingworkforce, marking a major push tomake financing a key part of  the skillsecosystem. The scheme is likely to beannounced in the upcoming Budget2026-27 in February and could be spre-ad over a five-year period. 
The scheme is the key component of
a comprehensive financing model be-ing firmed up by the ministry of  skillsdevelopment and entrepreneurship,aimed at meeting the growing de-mand for workforce development inIndia while also ensuring that resour-ces reach all segments, including wo-men, rural youth and persons withdisabilities, EThas learnt.
While details of  the scheme size, tar-
get beneficiaries and mode of  imple-mentation are being finalised for con-sideration at the highest level, a se-
nior government official aware of  the
Scheme to be called PM 
Kaushal Mudra Yojana
Funding  to be used for 
high-end skills training
If linked to PM Mudra 
Yojana, it will allow 
entrepreneurial loansScheme could be for 
a five-year period
Priority funding  for 
training in high-tech, sunrise sectors
To ensure sufficient 
fund availability to create skilled pool  of workersSkills   
ministry’s  
annual budget 
stood at  
`6100 crore  in  
2025-26Money Matters
Funding aims
to give thebeneficiarieswide accessto high-endgovt, privatetrainingproviders PM KAUSHAL MUDRA YOJANA Scheme c ould be spread over 5 years w ith focus on emerging sectorsIndia and EU to
Talk Mkt Access,Regulation,Non-tariff Issues
Our Bureau 
New Delhi: India and the Eu-
ropean Union will discuss keyareas of  the proposed free tra-de agreement (FTA) includingmarket access, non-tariff  mea-sures and regulatory coopera-tion during commerce and in-dustry minister Piyush Goy-al’s two-day visit to Brusselsfrom Monday . Goyal will holddiscussions with Maroš Šefco-vic, executive vice-presidentand European commissionerfor trade of  the EU.
“The visit will also serve to re-
view progress achieved so farand to identify areas requiringfurther convergence,” the com-merce and industry ministrysaid in a statement on Sunday .
The two sides aim to conclude
the FTA negotiations by De-cember . Separate negotiationsfor an investment protectionagreement and an agreementon geographical indicationsare also underway .
In 2024-25, India-EU trade in
goods amounted to $136.53 bil-lion. Goyal’s visit reflects “In-dia’s steadfast commitment todeepening engagement withthe EU, one of  its largest tra-ding partners, and to advan-cing an agreement that contri-butes to resilient supply cha-ins, sustainable growth, and arules-based global trading sy-stem,” the statement said. Thetwo sides aim to intensify ef-forts to conclude a comprehen-sive, balanced and mutuallybeneficial trade agreement atthe earliest, it said. “Buildingon the momentum generatedby the 14th round of  negotia-tions held earlier this month,the minister’s visit aims to pro-vide strategic direction and po-litical impetus to the talks,”the ministry said. India andthe EU concluded the 14th ro-und of  FTA negotiations inBrussels on October 10. 
Following the negotiations,
the EU said the talks focused onfirming up an economicallymeaningful market accesspackage.PACT LIKELY BY DEC
Visit to give ‘strategic
direction and politicalimpetus’ as the twosides aim to concludethe negotiations by Dec
geted outlay ,” said the official, who
did not wish to be identified. 
In six of  the past eight years, the go-
vernment’s final NREGS allocationsexceeded its budget estimates. 
Since it’s a demand-driven pro-
gramme, allocations are adjusted ifactual work demand deviates fromthe initial projections. Preliminarydata compiled by the rural develop-ment ministry showed about 1.43 bil-lion person-days were generated un-der the MGNREGS in the first half
of  this fiscal, down 11% from a yearearlier . The number of  people whosought work under the scheme fell8.5% in the first half  of  2025-26 from ayear before to almost 149 million.
Earlier this month, the finance mi-
nistry started holding meetingswith various ministries and depart-
^RE
Pandemic flar
ed up in FY21
Source: Budg et document sMGNREGS Outlay (` cr)
BE Actual
FY19  
55,000        61,815
FY20  60,000          71 ,687
FY21  61,500           1,11,170
FY22   73,000          98,468
FY23   73,000          89,400
FY24 60,000          89,154
FY25    86,000        86,000^
FY26    86,000 NA
Total spending in this fiscal year so far stands at ` `54,217 c rore, or 63% o f the full-year  allocation Govt Unlikely to Allocate Additional
Funds for MGNREGS in FY25-26
DEMAND MODERATION
Demand for mostly unskil-
led work under the schemehas moderated this year,with improved economicactivities opening up better-paying job opportu-nities in various sectorsments to firm up revised estimates
for the current fiscal, based on whichparliamentary clearance will be so-
ught in the next session for supple-
mentary demands for grants for va-rious schemes.
Demand moderated for a third stra-
ight month till September , with a ste-eper drop in September (27%) thanin August (25%) and July (11.5%).
The latest fall in work demand ca-
me even on an unfavourable base(work demand had fallen in the se-cond quarter of  last year), reflectingthe resilience of  the rural economy ,officials told ET recently . The plenti-
ful monsoon rains this year alsodidn’t hamper the usual migrationof  labourers to agriculture duringthe monsoon season. The economyexpanded at a better-than-expectedpace of  7.8%, a five quarter high, inApril-June, despite uncertaintiescaused by the US tariffs and other ex-ternal headwinds. This promptedthe International Monetary Fund torevise its 2025-26 growth projectionfor India to 6.6% from 6.4%.Banikinkar Pattanayak
New Delhi: The government maynot need to allocate more funds forthe rural employment guaranteescheme when it seeks parliamentaryapproval for supplementary de-mands for grants for 2025-26 in thewinter session, in a departure fromthe trend in recent years, a senior of-ficial said. 
Demand for mostly unskilled work
under the scheme has moderated thisyear , with improved economic activi-ties opening up better-paying job op-portunities in various sectors. 
Of  the ` `86,000 crore budgeted for
the Mahatma Gandhi National Ru-ral Employment Guarantee Scheme(MGNREGS) for the current fiscal,about ` `61,600 crore has so far been re-
leased. The total spending so farstands at ` `54,217 crore, or 63% of  the
full-year allocation. 
“The spending pattern this fiscal
gives us the confidence that the sche-me should be managed within bud-AMID SUBDUED WORK DEMAND
India Maritime Week 2025:
WIND IN THE SAILS
1,400
972
1,20593
10
87 16548
1,3522,762
1,594
1,549
Over 100,000 delegates, port operators, investors, and 
policymakers from 85 countries w ill gather in Mumbai f or a week 
from Monday t o chart a roadmap f or innovation 
in logistics, shipbuilding , financ e, 
sustainabilit y, and t he blue economy,  
as the country eyes a larger 
footprint in the sector. 
India’s port capacity addition has grown with operating ratio improving from 43% a decade ago to 73% today 
Port capacity
(million t onnes  per annum)
Cargo volumes  handled 
(million t onnes )
Average vessel  
turnaround t ime (Hours )
Number of Indian-
flagg ed vessels
Gross  tonnag e (million)
Coastal shipping c argo 
movement (million t onnes )
Union Ports, Shipping, and Waterways Minister, 
Sarbananda Sonowal to ET:  The India Marit ime 
Week 2025 is poised t o become a defi  ning 
platform f or global marit ime c ollaborat ion and 
investment. The event is expected to generat e 
business par tnership s worth over `10 trillion. W e 
are confi  dent that the deliber ations and outcomes  
at IMW will strengthen India’ s position as a leading 
marit ime and trade hub, aligned wi th its 
long-term vision of a Viksit Bharat.
2014 2025 Parame ter
External Hires Dominate Mfg
Leadership Roles: Report
PTI
Mumbai: A significant per-
centage of  executive move-
ments in the manufacturingsector over the past year wereexternal hires, highlighting aclear preference among orga-nisations to bring in fresh lea-dership rather than promotefrom within, says a report.
According to a report by CI-
EL HR Services, based on ananalysis of  executive-levelmovements within the Indianmanufacturing sector over a
12-month period, nearly two-thirds (62%) of  senior hiresin the manufacturing sectorin the past year were externalappointments.
The report’s insights are ba-
sed on proprietarydata collected froma combination ofpublicly available
sources, including professio-nal networking platforms,company announcements,press releases, and verifieddatabases tracking seniormanagement appointments.
The report further revealed
that leadership churn wasmost visible at the very top.
CCI NG 3.17 Product: ETBangaloreBS PubDate: 27-10-2025 Zone: Bangalore Edition: 1Page: ETBGBP2 User: sam.jose Time: 10-26-2025 23:17 Color:
***This PDF download is allowed by BCCL only for the personal use of ePaper/ET Prime/TOI+ subscribers,
Sharing PDF on any Social Media or uploading on Websites will violate copyrights and would result in criminal offence and civil penalties.